This is Jockel Podcast number 68.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willing.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
So we've been doing some Facebook lives lately, Facebook Live,
and they've been pretty cool, interacting, getting a lot of questions,
but here's the deal.
On the Facebook Live, I think the first one I did,
I got 3,000 comments or questions in one hour,
and it's something like 40 or 50 questions a minute,
which is one a second, which means you can't answer all of them.
And I started looking at some of the questions,
and there were some really good questions on there.
And there was also a lot of common questions that pop up,
that maybe I don't address or have an address.
And I said, you know what, if a lot of people are asking
the same question, there must be a need to know
or people are interested in what the answer is.
So I kind of threw together some of those questions
from Facebook Live, primarily,
there's a couple other ones that I got from Twitter
and or Facebook message.
Is that what it's called?
Facebook message messenger?
Like when somebody direct messages.
And you know, with that, if there's people
that are sending me messages and stuff through social media,
and even through email, I can't answer all of them right now.
I just can't, and I apologize,
and I appreciate what you're sending me,
but I can't always get to them all.
There's a lot of them coming in.
It's not, I don't have enough time to answer them all.
I look at them and, you know,
I'll try and throw back an answer real quick sometimes,
but a lot of times, I just don't have time to answer them all.
Sometimes I read them all, I do read them all,
but you know, when I'm looking at a limited amount of time,
and I have a ton of Facebook questions coming in,
it can be hard.
Hey, if you do want an answer, let me give you something
that is helpful, if you want an answer,
ask like a really simple question, yes or no,
or should I do this or that?
So should I go to college or join the military
based on the situation I'm in right now,
that I don't have any money,
and I'd have to borrow money to go to college,
what do you think I should do?
There's a couple options there for me to answer.
You know what I mean?
It's gonna be pretty straightforward.
On that one, I'm gonna say, join the military.
You want to join the military anyways?
Go get after it, boom, done.
So, but if you give these long questions
that then you're looking for an open-ended kind of answer,
it's hard for me to get around to them.
Now, those are also questions
that I normally might pull into the podcast
because they do require more response.
So if that's what you're looking for,
yes, that's a good way to send it on Facebook
or on Twitter, if it's an open-ended answer
that I'm gonna have to think about
or I don't have to discuss with you, that's cool.
But if you just need an answer about something,
just answer, ask a direct question, I'll get around to it.
But during the Facebook Live,
there was a ton of questions,
it was really cool.
I had never done Facebook Live before
and got a lot of good questions.
So, with that, let's go to this subject today
from the Facebook people.
And Twitter, I'm a man.
And Twitter.
Yeah.
These primarily came from Facebook Live.
Oh, dang much.
I went through every comment.
Yeah.
So it took some time.
I seriously, my computer started lagging.
I'm sorry.
Which, and I know I talk about being mad at computers
or at printers and copy machines,
but when my computer's lagging, that also can get me angry.
Yeah, the computer's pushing it up.
Pushing it's luck.
I just want the thing to work quickly.
Yeah, that's the whole thing though.
That's the whole thing with computers.
It's like, of course you want to work more quickly.
But like, if you get a cheap computer,
I don't have a cheap main thing.
Oh, yeah, so you have expectations.
Yeah, yeah.
Makes sense.
I want the thing to work quickly.
Yeah.
I almost got a T1 line.
You know, that is Internet-wise.
I thought that that was like old school.
No, it's the T1 line is when you're getting it.
And they guarantee 99.9% up and going and never break.
Never have any issues.
I almost got a T1 line for a Tesla.
For a Tesla.
I think I didn't do it.
Yeah, hey, that's up to you, obviously.
And with that, I think let's go to the question.
First question questions.
Okay, Jockel first question.
Do you work out every day?
Okay, yeah, this is a question that a bunch of people were asking me.
And I thought it was pretty evident that I do work out every day, which I do.
And then I also thought that there was a little misleading statement in the success magazine
article.
Again, I don't know what I said on some of these questions or how I answered it at the
time or what I explained or how I explained it.
But there was a misleading statement that on this particular day, I had already lifted in
the morning at 0, 430.
And now I was lifting again at 9 or whatever time it was.
And then I was going to lift it.
It was like made it seem like I was lifting just over and over again throughout the
day, which generally I don't do.
Generally, when I wake up in the morning, I lift.
And by lift, I mean, work out.
By work out, that might mean lift.
It might mean do galestinics.
It might mean sometimes it just means stretching, right?
But rarely do I do.
I stretch.
But like yesterday, I was feeling a little under the weather for two days.
Wasn't full on sick.
My, some of my family members got sick.
They were really sick.
And when it hit me, it didn't hit me as hard.
Because I, you know, fought against against the illness.
So I was a little bit sick.
But one day, as someone was like, okay, I'm just going to go and stretch.
The next day, I was like, leg day, you know, I was going to go do squats.
And I did squats.
But if anybody was to come and witness that workout, I would have to be ashamed of myself.
Because all I did was basically go in there, go through the motion, put a little weight on
the bar move.
But yes, I do.
I work out.
So even when I'm sick, I'm going to work out.
Right.
I'm going to work out.
And when to do something, because I think it's healthy to do something.
Now another question that people say is like, do you lift and do you just win the same
day?
Yes, absolutely.
All the time, almost daily.
Another branch question of that one is, do you lift before you get to or after
you did to?
I like to lift before you did to.
I want to go into you to a little bit tired.
Does it matter if I have some of the young guns at the gym?
They'll say, oh, you know, I'll go into roll with them at night and the young guns will
say, oh, I already worked out.
We worked hard to work out today.
I'm not all fresh.
You know what I was saying?
We think I'm fresh.
We think I've been doing all day.
So yeah, I like to work out before I do Gigi Gigi and I like to surf.
If there's good waves or even marginal waves, get a little surf session in and if I can
get, I don't like to use the word cardio, but I'll use it.
It's nice to go for a little run, little jog.
So that's sort of like my grand slam of a day.
Oh, the three.
No four.
Four, four.
If I work out, you know, lift, calisthenics or whatever, then do some kind of a, again, I'll
use the word cardio, go for a run, go for a jog, go for a swim, surf.
That's awesome.
Then you throw the Gigi to one on top of it.
That's a grand slam for me.
I love those days.
And those of days you go to sleep at night, you know, those of the days, you go to bed
and you feel tired.
Yeah.
You know, that's one of the things in the book that's coming out, the field manual, discipline
equals freedom, field manual.
I talk about sleep.
And one of the things I talk about is, you know, people are saying, how, how do you
fall asleep at night?
Because a lot of people, you know, we all, everyone has trouble getting up in the morning,
but then when you start saying, okay, well, I'm going to go to bed earlier.
People have trouble falling asleep.
Oh, yeah.
There's a lot of people, even me.
So what do you do to fall asleep earlier?
I got a couple steps in the field manual.
One of the steps in the field manual is be more tired.
Yeah.
How do you be more tired?
You work out harder during the day.
You drain yourself physically and mentally during the day.
That way when you go, go to bed at night.
You will fall asleep.
Yeah.
And I got the whole thing laid out there, but that's one of them.
One other note.
So that's it.
You know, do I work out every day?
Yes, do something every day.
Do something.
Even if you, even if all you have this 10 minutes, 200 burpees, you know, just 200
burpees, just at a minimum, make that happen.
But also sick.
If you're sick, do what you can, get a little sweat going.
If you're injured, do what you can, if you're sick, caveat, that doesn't mean go train
you, get to.
Because if you're sick, you make everybody else sick.
Yeah, add you, get to.
And that's not cool.
So if you're that kind of sick, don't do it.
But other than that, yes, I work out every day.
I try and train every day.
I stay active.
Yeah, bottom line.
It's going to be hard to try to mask your routine onto someone else.
You know, like you, you can't just go into, let's say I'm a guy I work out.
Wanted once a day.
And it's like just, let's say it's a stringuous workout.
That's super stringuous.
Not like hard.
I can't just be like, hey, Jockel works out four times a day on his good dance.
Let me start doing that.
Like you can not only get hurt, but it won't work.
Yeah.
And that's another misconception is that every single day that I go, that I work out,
I'm going level 29, dis-self destruction.
You can't do that.
It doesn't eat.
You can't do it.
You just can't do it.
It's not like you can't do it because it'll hurt you.
You do squats, heavy one day, or you go through three or four days of going really hard.
The fifth, six day, one of those days, you're going to be like, okay, I need to back
off today.
Whatever the day it is.
So I'll, you do some kind of workout.
I'll still go, I'll still get it on, but I'm not going to go level 29, you know, self destruction.
When I was going to boot camp, there was, they would say there was a room attached to the
main hall, the main barracks where everyone was, this open bay barracks.
And if you got in trouble for something, they'd send you to this side room and they'd say,
go in there and self-destruct.
Which meant you did.
And they had a list of exercises and it was jumping jacks, pushups, you know, sit up,
just a bunch of random calisthenics.
When they'd send you and they'd see that, it was posted.
And then you went in there and you did one of every exercise, then two of every exercise
is then three and then four and then five and then six and one of my buddies who ended up
being a seal who's a great dude, who I went to boot camp with.
He said he is the only guy I went to navy boot camp with and we both ended up in the
seal teams.
But the chief that was running is like, you know, whatever is seeming a bonus, he was
kid in there and self-destruct.
And this guy was a wrestler, a college wrestler, legit college wrestler, a great dude.
And he went in there and, you know, normally people are done by whatever, you know, five
or six repetitions or maybe eight repetitions.
He was in there for like an hour.
He came out just dripping with sweat.
It was, I knew he was in there getting out.
For sure.
Yeah.
The wrestler version of the rest of the room.
It's different than some guy from wherever that's, you know, a non wrestler.
A non wrestler.
Yes.
So, put quite simply.
Thanks.
And they just kind of leave it to you.
Yeah.
Did self-destruct.
That's what it was.
He was the master at arms in my boot camp, which I don't even remember.
Who the wrestler guy?
The wrestler guy.
He was the master at arms.
We were both from New England too.
And so we had driven the, the, the flown down there, the forward on the same plane.
And of course, we were both kind of, you know, what do you go in the Navy for?
I want to be a seal.
What are you going for?
I want to be a seal, too.
So we kind of had a little bit of, okay, well, at least this guy is kind of getting
after it in some way.
And honestly, he was called a wrestler.
I was probably like a little punk team because he's thinking, what is this?
I was just a high school kid.
No, I'm wrestling.
I'm wrestling.
I want to be a Navy seal.
Yeah.
And yeah.
So anyways, he was the master at arms.
That's what he was like.
Mastered arms, getting that room itself, destruct.
So, that was a good time.
So no, I do not self-destruct on a daily basis.
But I do get it on every day.
And definitely push myself on a regular basis.
Yeah.
And that's obviously going to depend on what you like, what is the results?
Because you're not at a point where you're like, hey, I need to really get in shape.
I need to lose 25 pounds.
No, I'm not saying that.
You know what is interesting though is the days where I'm getting the grand slam going
when I get to Gitu, I feel good.
Yeah.
I train way better when I'm in the zone when I've been working now, when I've had a good
work out, I've served.
I show up to Gitu, I feel great.
I don't feel off-field tired, but I feel better.
Right.
Yeah, it's kind of like your second round of rolling.
If for whatever reason, I don't get a workout in the morning or I only get a really
short workout in the morning.
And then I go to change Gitu.
I never feel optimal.
And as a matter of fact, I have a personal superstition slash curse in my own head that
if I don't work out in the morning, I am going to get injured.
So that forces me to work out even when I don't want to.
So I say, well, I'm going to train tonight.
I don't want to get injured because there's been, I think, two injuries that I've gotten
from Gitu.
Both of them happened when I didn't work out in the morning.
I'm not getting it.
One of them.
Yeah, I didn't work out in the morning and I showed up and went to train and one of
them hurt my ankle really bad like a high ankle sprain.
And that was bad, but I didn't work out in the morning.
That must have been it.
And I think the, yeah.
Well, personally.
I had to, I think the other one was, I think the other one was a knee injury.
No, what's in the knee injury?
I think it was a shoulder injury.
Anyways, whatever it was, it's also that day didn't work out in the morning.
For some pathetic reason, you know, didn't work out.
So for me, work out, it's mental prep.
It's physical prep.
Get you ready for the evening.
The jujits.
I think that's, I think that's called availability bias.
And you kind of draw that conclusion, you know, in your specific cases.
Oh, it stands out in your mind on this emotional level.
So it's like, you know, you actually didn't really happen though.
So never mind.
No, but cognitive bias.
I'm telling you what happened.
I understand.
I would have.
But you have to consider all the times in your whole jujits of career that you didn't
work out.
That's what I'm saying.
That was the only, it's, it's a such a small number.
It's such a small number.
I bet you it is.
I bet you there's 10 times in the past 10 years that I didn't work out in the morning.
And I, and I trained jujitsu that night.
Yeah, 200, 10.
That's bad, huh?
Yeah.
You can't consider, you can't include that.
And that's probably pretty generous.
It might be like five because sometimes I'm on the road.
And then I didn't work out, but I didn't train jujitsu.
But for me to be here in my hometown with access to my garage gym and the jujitsu, for
me to just say, oh, I'm just not going to work out today.
I don't say that, right?
It's not very common.
No.
Yeah.
I would say if it was a muscle strain or tear or something like this, I would say
that I would maybe make it a little different because you're stiffer, you know?
But then again, ankle too.
If you're super like warm, you can stretch your ankles and shoulders a lot.
So I don't know.
Maybe you might be right.
I could be to have it completely.
Certainly sounds like I'm right.
But statistically, I think I win statistically.
No, statistically, let's say it's inconclusive.
Okay.
So 20% is not conclusive to you.
No.
You know what I'll do?
I'll keep working out.
Give it a quantity.
Like you'd have to do it over time.
And then if there's like a discernible 20%, then you could start to conclude.
Okay.
I'm 20%.
You're so excited about that.
That's what we're talking about.
Well, as a right now, statistically, 20% were like, we get hurt if you don't, which is pretty
big.
Work out.
Yes.
Yeah.
Those aren't good odds at all.
I know.
I'm working out every day now.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
I used to do that.
But I would go hard workout, think of you too.
But same thing though.
I think it's mental.
Unless you're doing it like seven days a week for, you know, a few weeks then you
can start to feel like, hey, or your nutrition is bad or I don't know something.
It's to go.
Are you feeling better?
You feel better.
Sometimes, not all the time though.
No, sometimes I'll feel better if I don't work out.
But so I wouldn't say that necessarily in my case, but I think it is more mental.
In Gigi, too, like, I think it's natural to put pressure in yourself to perform in Gigi's
training.
You know, because I think it's part of it.
Like, when I go in, I'm going to roll against you.
I'm going to try to do good against you.
I'm not going to every single time I'm not going to go in and be like, let's just see what
I learned today.
Let me work on my weaknesses and try to learn and try to try to win.
And there's that element I think most of the time for most people.
So mentally will play these games or will kind of psych herself out like, I'm not at my
best because I'm kind of tired from working out.
So I won't be able to perform.
Now the pressure is on.
Maybe I'm going to roll with the guy who's my level.
Maybe my instructor is going to see me roll with him.
I'm not going to do as good as I normally do.
He won't all think I'm not as good as I really am.
You know, it's like, you're saying there's mental pressure when you're at the Gigi.
That's why I think that's why people will say, oh, I work.
Out today.
I don't want you to judge my performance.
It's a pretty role excuse.
In a way.
Yeah, I do.
I do.
Because it would be a lie too.
Yeah.
Because I would actually go and say, hey, I didn't work out today.
Therefore, my game is going to be weak.
That's what I would have to say.
But I would say that's not the case for you.
What's it that?
Yeah.
And it's pretty rare.
I think, I mean, it might experience.
It's pretty rare that, oh, work out, even a hard workout in the morning and then go
roll at night and then it affects me.
Like, yeah, I feel it's pretty rare now.
Now I will get so sore sometimes.
You know, if you do squats or you a hardcore, like a hardcore kettlebell workout, I'll
be sore.
And it takes a few minutes to get that soreness out of the body once you're on the
mats.
And sometimes somebody will be doing some movement that's grinding on the quads.
And it hurts.
He'll make you Ziggy a little bit.
Ziggy.
Sure.
So I was jumping.
I was parachuting.
I had like, this is like, when I was in the tilting.
Oh, okay.
That's like this one.
I was parachuting.
And I didn't have that many jumps, right?
I wasn't an experienced free fall.
Parachuters, parachute is at this time.
And the guy we were going jumping with was an extremely experienced, highly experienced.
Thousands and thousands of parachute jumps.
And he took a crew of us and we were all pretty much new jumpers.
We didn't know what the hell we were doing.
And so we go up and there is a ceiling, meaning that the clouds are low.
And so we can't get to full altitude.
And so he goes, hey guys, we can't get up to altitude.
We're in the aircraft.
This is almost, you know, this is one of those cheesy like a movie type scene where we're
in the aircraft.
And he's kind of yelling like what's going on to us.
Yeah, like I'm playing for a new guy's in this guy was a master chief in Isaac.
He's like, hey guys.
We can't get up to altitude.
We're going to just do a hop and pop at three grand or something like that.
Meaning we're just going to go in a very low altitude.
Just going to jump out and pop our parachutes.
And I'm sitting there.
I've never even done a hop and pop before.
I barely knew how to get stable coming out of an aircraft.
The way you go through, we used to go through free fall school.
It was like a rapid, rapid evolution where if you did correct on one jump, they moved
in the next one.
It did my jumps correctly so I didn't have a lot of jumps.
So then we get this guy's saying, and I only jumped at 13,000 feet before this.
So you have all kinds of time if you mess up on your exit, which if you don't know when
you jump out of an aircraft when you're inexperienced, you can get spun around as a matter
of fact Andy Stump talked about how he started spinning out of control and it happens.
Well, when you're at 13,000 feet, you start spinning.
It's okay.
You find your body position.
You get stable.
We called it flat, dumb and happy.
Meaning you're falling flat and everything is stable and good.
And then you can pull your parachute.
And it's fine.
Well, at 3000 feet, you don't have time to do any of that.
So when you come out, you basically have to come out and immediately adapt to the air stream
of the aircraft and you have to get yourself stable and then you need to pull really quickly.
And so I'm kind of thinking to myself, I'm kind of thinking as I have no idea how to do this.
And I've, I know that I've messed up a bunch of exits and I knew that I got an unstable
a bunch of times jumping out and you know it just find my time and get stable and be cool.
So anyways, this is Mastery of Tech.
Guys, we can't get to altitude.
We're just going to do a hop and pop at 3000 feet.
And I'm thinking to myself, okay, there's a limited chance that I'm going to make this exit
properly.
And I think I said something along the lines of like, hey, hey, Master Chief, I've never
done a hop and pop before.
You know, because we're yelling an aircraft to get here and you think I'm like, I've
never done a hop and pop before.
Look, what's any thing, any pointers?
And it was me and all my buddies none of us had done it before.
And he goes, yeah, he's no big deal.
You just go out, just count to three and pull.
And I go Roger that and then he goes, just don't Ziggy the exit.
That's what he says.
Just don't Ziggy the exit, meaning don't don't have a bad exit, which like at this
point, like I said, I was probably batting 50% bad exits because I just didn't know what
I was doing.
So of course, what did I do?
Okay, fine.
I'll just jump if I Ziggy the exit and die.
Cool.
So weak.
But at least I tried to hit it.
So don't Ziggy the exit.
So what?
Oh, so I went out.
I didn't Ziggy the exit.
Oh, actually, you know what?
When the pressure's on, you rise, you know?
You rise.
You hope to rise.
I always feel better.
You don't take surfing without a leash.
You know what, the leash is, right?
Do you know, I mean, you're from Hawaii.
Yeah, I know at least.
Thank you.
Some people wear a leash.
Some people don't.
When I wear a leash, which I don't like to, you can make mistakes.
There's no, there's no price to be paid.
Because all you do is you fall on your board to write there with you.
When you don't have a rope on or a leash on, when you fall, your board is gone.
You have to swim for it.
It's a pain.
It can hit people.
It's hazardous.
It's dangerous.
All these things.
When I surf with a leash on, I surf like crap when I surf with no rope, which
I prefer.
I surf better because if you don't make, if you Ziggy that, you Ziggy that drop it.
Your board's gone.
You're going to hurt somebody.
It's a nightmare.
So, yeah, makes sense.
And I'll tell you, my son the other day, there was big waves.
I mean, not big waves from Hawaii and standpoint, but San Diego big waves.
And he's just on a long board, no rope, just dropping it on.
I was pretty impressed.
And actually, especially because I have a little bit of a tweak shoulder right now.
So, I was wearing a leash because I can't quite grip my board as much as I need to.
All right.
And so, I'm sitting out there wearing a leash and he's out there.
No rope, kidding you.
I'm trying to hit him.
It's like, okay, that's cool.
Impressive.
I don't know.
It was like that though.
Not it was, oh, that they rise the pressure.
Yeah, like the, or even in your case, seems like you prefer the pressure.
I prefer the pressure.
So, I prefer the pressure.
Or for making a mistake.
There's just less reward, right?
You want more reward.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's like rolling with people that you're better than, you know?
You know what?
You want to, you want to feel a challenge.
Right?
You know?
You want to feel a challenge.
Right?
You know?
Yeah.
And that makes sense.
But I guess it's like the standard is different with use.
Because like, let's fit.
I was a smugger back in the day.
riding a boogie boogie boogie.
Body, we call it body-boarding.
Yeah.
Anyway, same thing, leash and no leash.
But if you're shredding big waves,
right, you want that leash.
Because it's some people, I was one of those people
where if you don't have a leash, it's like,
okay, I'm now I'm thinking about that a little bit.
No, it's on my mind.
Rather than you don't have to think about that,
I can just think about this wave shredding.
I can just think about shredding.
Yeah.
So, you have that situation,
but you are as a perfect analogy with the,
you just guys like, let's say, you're a black belt.
And, you know, whatever you get matched up
with a white belt, boom, timer goes off.
And then, let's say it's a white belt
that you've rolled with before.
So, you not only do you expect to be better than him?
Yeah, actually good.
You actually know it.
Yeah.
And there's no path.
So, yeah, your body straight up has no,
essentially no motivation, no incentive
to quote unquote perform, same thing.
Yeah.
But I think with these types of things,
like it's just a different standard though.
Some people in your case, apparently,
you feel that in surfing with the leash,
but I think some people that at the same time,
it's like wearing a mouthpiece too, you know?
Yeah.
It'll be like, oh yeah.
You know, but that's not smart.
What?
Not wearing a mouthpiece.
But no, not jujitsu, but if you start stand up,
yeah, it's like boxing or kick boxing,
without a mouthpiece and it's not smart.
Yeah, but I've done a ton of stupidly.
Yeah, but think of that mindset there,
where it's like, yeah, I don't know where my mouthpiece,
that way when someone hits me,
it the cost is greater, you know?
So it'll add some pressure to talk about.
I think dental damage.
Yeah, that's a little damage.
It's supposed to face losing your boogie board in the,
to the shore where you got to swim a little bit more.
Yeah, man, same deal.
Jack, all right.
Next question.
What's your name?
Boxing or jujitsu for a seven year old boy?
Jujitsu all day on that one.
It's a couple reasons.
It's fun.
It's active.
So you can actually fight the other person.
And it's real fighting and it's what they're used to.
And so many often when parents come in
and they bring their kid in for the first time,
or now it's weak to and the parents are,
oh, they just love it so much.
And yeah, they're doing what they want to do.
What they're, what they instinctually want to do.
Go look at dogs, go look at cats, go look at any animal
out there in the animal kingdom.
You know what they do?
They grapple with each other.
And they actually do submissions, right?
They, if you watch like a wolf pack,
when that dominating wolf gets the throat of the weaker wolf,
the submissive wolf, he doesn't rip his throat out.
The guy taps out, game over.
He now he knows that he's the alpha now, but it's the same thing.
So you know, you watch little lions or tigers.
They wrestle with each other.
They don't kill each other.
They tap out.
They get submissive.
They say, oh yeah, you won.
So it's very natural and very instinctive to do.
So yeah, Gigiitsu all day long.
Now it's important to develop your striking.
And you can do that training boxing on two times a week.
So just get in there and learn how to throw it.
It's really, it's really pretty sad when you, when you meet a grown man
that does not have a throw punch, right?
That's just not good.
You should know how to throw punch because if you get in a fight,
the fights are going to start standing.
And if all you know how to do is try and double like someone,
you don't always want to do that.
In fact, you prefer to knock the person out in many cases.
So learn how to throw strikes, but I will say as far as seven year olds
getting in there and sparring two young, two young, all kinds of brain
developments still going on.
Head trauma is head trauma.
You're not going to get better at it as you get older.
By it, well, I shouldn't say that.
You're not going to get better at it by taking more punches.
The more you get punched in the head, the worse you're going to be at it.
Period.
End of story.
Now I shouldn't say period in story.
When you turn 18 or when you turn 17 and you're going to start sparring,
you're going to get better at it for a little bit.
Because you're going to get used to it.
You're going to understand how the reaction.
You're going to know how to deal with the little white flash that hits you.
You're going to become comfortable in that uncomfortable scenario.
But that uptick of increased improvement is very short.
And very quickly, you reach the other side of that, which is every time you get
punched in the head, you're taking your brain resilience backwards.
So do boxing, learn it, throw punches, hit pads, note, make sure you know how to throw
a punch.
And you take a kid that's 10 years old that knows how to throw a 1, 2, 3 combo.
And he gets in a street fight.
He knows Gjitsu and boxing.
He's not even getting into the Gjitsu part.
Because he throws a 1, 2, 3 combo.
And he's knocking out just about every other kid or at least he's putting them down.
Or at least at least he's shown that that kid is going to go away.
This person knows how to fight and I don't.
Because it is hard to knock people out.
I don't care, even to even a skilled boxer will have a hard time knocking out a random
person in the street.
Because it's hard to knock someone out.
Harder.
So yes, Gjitsu all day long for the 7 year old and do a little bit of striking to get
them familiar with it.
Yeah, Gjitsu is way funnier too.
And of course, it sounds like a matter of opinion.
But just how you said grappling stuff is natural.
Even if you get to brothers who don't take Gjitsu at all, no wrestling, no nothing, you
say, go play outside.
They're going to start and no ball, no nothing.
They're going to mess around and chances are they're going to start.
One guy is going to be pinning the other guy on the ground, pinning his hands or whatever.
And that's kind of part of it.
So Gjitsu, it's basically Gjitsu is just that.
It's literally just that except for there's actual skills in there so they can get good at
that thing that they're looking at.
And that's one of the reasons that boxing or striking kick because I should say boxing,
kick boxing, moi tie, whatever.
There's a reason why it's a little bit boring if you're not sparring because now you're
not sparring.
You're hitting pads.
You're hitting, it's just not as fun.
It is cool.
And it's good.
And I'll tell you what, I've been to Thailand and it's awesome seeing the young kids that are
training like that all the time.
You drive down the streets in Thailand.
Just like in America, you see guys shooting hoops, or you see kids shooting hoops, you see
kids playing catch the baseball.
The kids there are doing more time.
That's what they're doing.
That's that is badass.
But that's a traditional thing.
Yeah.
And when that's all around you, that's what we do.
That's what us kids.
Just like soccer, like certain places you're going to see more people playing soccer.
They're using the same playing basketball.
Oh yeah, of course.
No, traditional thing.
But I'm saying even at that young age, they do find it entertaining.
And they, and they're also our ways to sparring.
If you can do it correctly, that is like light sparring.
It's almost like you're playing tag.
I call a playing tag.
You can kind of play tag with a person.
You're aren't proving your skills, but you're not getting head brain trauma.
And that's actually a good point.
So playing tag?
Yeah.
Because even if you're not training boxing, you'll do that anyway.
You know, with your brothers, like slap boxing, we used to go before actually took
you, Jitsu when we just watched UFC, where the waist greasy videos, we play slap MMA.
Basically.
So it's slap boxing.
You can kick them in the legs or whatever.
And even if you get them on the ground, your ground upon is just slap
him in the face.
We do that.
And that's fun even if you don't know Jitsu or boxing or anything.
So that's right.
I think that you're right about that.
In that case where you just have to be careful of kids getting hit.
You kids and adults getting hit repeatedly in the head with legit strikes.
It's just not good for you period.
Yeah.
And that's kind of a slippery slope too when you're like, oh, seven year old boy, I want
to get them into boxing.
You know.
So obviously there's a spectrum there.
It's on one side.
You're like, okay, just get them learn how to throw one, two, learn the, you know,
what else is important to say to you.
And I just thought of this is, you said, did you say there's a spectrum?
Yeah.
So there's a spectrum.
There's a spectrum of natural ability to take punches too.
So some people can get punched their whole lives and they're fine in the head.
And you look at some pro-boxers that come out of their boxing career after having wars
and they're cognitively fine.
And there's other guys that go through their careers and they're, they're in rough shape
without getting done.
They have a pugilistic brain syndrome.
I forget the actual name of it, but they have, you know, the boxers brain damage.
And so you don't know who's going to have that.
You don't know if your kids going to have that or not.
So if the only way to find out is to test them by giving it to them, that's not a good
way to find out.
It's not worth it.
Even if they want to be a pro-boxer, it's not a good way to find out.
Because you're going to find out when they're doing their first amateur bout and they get
if they get knocked out or, you know, they get bad headaches.
It's a bad situation.
Yeah.
So I think that's one of the reasons why I think due to en- Wrestling is going to get even
more popular because as you look at the UFC evolve, the people are now saying, you know,
all kinds of UFC fighters are saying, hey, I'm not sparring.
I'm barely sparring anymore.
I don't sparring before my fight, right?
Sparring very limited amount.
And so as people are saying that, well, what are you going to do if you're not sparring?
Well, you're hitting pads.
That's cool.
But how you can train?
You're going to do your job.
So you're going to do grappling.
That's where you're going to win the fight.
So I think that as the UFC gets more and more popular and as more information comes out
about traumatic brain injuries that come from repetitive hits to the head, I think that
the popularity of boxing and striking training is going to go down and that will force
or cause the popularity of wrestling and juts are to go up.
Yeah, potentially, yeah.
True.
But what I said about the stradming and everything's really a spectrum, but the approach
to it, right?
So let's talk about boxing.
Seven year old boy boxing.
There's a spectrum on one side of the spectrum is, yeah, let's have them learn the
one, two, have them learn a jab, put across on this.
And that school hits some mitts, do a workout, do some jump rope, and do this.
On the other side, the extreme side, do skid, do split in seven days a week.
He's going to be the next Roy Jones Jr or something like that.
And we're going to start on right now, kind of thing.
So in that case, most of the time I would predict is that on the extreme case, the boy is
not going to take to it as naturally.
Unless it is part of the tradition or something like that.
But you do, too, like I said, it's just so unless you're being that guy, that parent, you
know the one who's like you're going no matter what.
But I think so I think you're, I think naturally they're going to take to something like
you do, too.
Just wait more fun.
And even just the traditional atmosphere of you do, too, is more fun.
You're just, especially in the kids, all those kids are so much fun in there.
They don't barely know that they're doing something instructional in a lot of cases.
They're just, hey, you hold this person here with your knees on each side.
Well, that's the amount.
And the person on the kid on the bottom is learning the amount of scape.
They don't even know it, but they're learning it.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's fun.
Yeah, my daughter doesn't even want to leave.
The gym now.
That's so easy.
Just run around.
Yeah.
And think about it, too.
You're in a padded room.
Here's a padded room, do whatever you want.
Yeah.
Go.
Yeah, I'm in the best.
Next question.
Draco, how do you read books to prepare for podcasts?
How do you read a book to extract maximum benefit in advice on keeping yourself focused
and being patient while reading books?
So this was a series of reoccurring questions that were about kind of how I read and it grabbed
three of them that were in there.
So how do I prepare for a podcast?
It's actually a pretty in-depth situation.
So first thing I do is read the book.
Has reading the book a highlight?
Anything that I find to be interesting or informative to me or reinforce an idea that I
know or bring a new idea to bear.
So as I'm going through, I'm just highlighting everything.
When I get done with it, now just to say when we're talking max benefit, when I was in college
and I would do that, I would once I got done with highlighting the areas that I found informative
and important, then I would make flashcards of the highlighted areas.
So I was like double locking the information.
Because when you, as soon as I make a flashcard, I've already got it 50% in my mind.
Well, I read it.
I highlighted it.
It was like 25%.
Make a flashcard?
That's another 45% or 50%.
And so boom, now I got to do a study of the flashcard for that last 25% to lock in the knowledge
where when I go in to take the test, I know 100% I know, I'm going to know every answer
on the question.
When you recall, like a thing, you actually recall what the flashcards did.
Yes.
You wrote the A and that one, you know?
So that's what I would do.
This is kind of a side track when I was in college.
Highlight and then make flashcards of what I highlighted.
Now, for the podcast, what I do is once I read it and highlight it, now I go back
through and I look at the highlights and now I start being selective of what is going
to be in the podcast.
And I actually circle the actual words I'm going to read with a red pen that I'm holding
right here.
And that's what I do.
I circle and then I have little notes that say next, like when I circle a section,
and then I'll even have an arrow that goes to another point or I'll have a little note
that says, go to page 49 and then there'll be a tab.
One of those yellow sticky tabs on page 49 boom, there it is.
I can flip right there real quick.
So we don't have to edit.
We don't have to, there's a flow.
I can keep rolling.
And then on top of those, when I get to, when I read something and I want to say something
about it, I have little sticky notes that I put in there.
Either sticky notes.
I have the sticky tape stuff, which is pretty legit.
And I just rolled out, I stick it on there and I say, hey,
I mentioned, you know, experience I had here or what happened when I was doing this.
And so I kind of make those notes in that way, I can get it done.
And while I'm doing that is when I have to figure out the chronology that I'm going
to read it because I don't always read the notes from the book on the podcast in the same
order that they are in the book because sometimes it just doesn't make sense.
Sometimes there's some, so at the same time I'm doing that, I'm going back and figure
out what direction I'm actually going to read them.
All right.
So sometimes my conclusion of the book is different than the authors conclusion of the book.
Yeah.
So I got to go back and say, I got to go back pages or forward or whatever.
So that's what I'm figuring out there as well.
So that's kind of what the podcast prep looks like.
Now how to stay focused in patient while reading books.
This is really difficult.
I don't have a long attention span.
And I have a long attention span, it's only because I absolutely force myself to do it.
So what I would prefer to do is to read in small chunks.
I want to do work for like an hour to time, right?
When I'm writing, I want to work for about an hour.
When I'm reading, I want to read for about an hour.
After that, I want to get up and break something or throw something or lift something or
run somewhere.
You know what I mean?
It's, I have an hour of patience with me.
Unfortunately, that's not enough time.
You know, especially when you're doing a podcast a week and you got to read a whole book.
Well, guess what?
You got to read for longer.
You got to read for two, three hours at a pop.
I'll try and make it that I do an hour early in the morning.
Sometimes when I'm behind the curve, I will read first thing in the morning before I
work out because I just want to get an hour done.
Then I get to go and release.
Right?
Then I get done with the workout, take a shower.
Now I'm going to read for another 45 minutes.
Okay, good.
Now I'll do something else, little pre-lunch reading.
So, and then before I go to bed, I'm doing another hour.
So there, I just got four or five hours in a day without having to sit down and do something
for four or five straight hours, which bothers the hell out of me.
The other thing you can do, and I do this, is I'll read multiple books at the same time,
which is an interesting task.
I attack.
I don't know if everybody should do that or could do that or would want to do that.
But sometimes one book gets boring.
But I know I got to read.
So I just have two books, three books all sitting there and I'm reading them all at the same
time.
And that makes them a little bit more interesting.
And the last thing I would say about trying to be focused on inpatient when you're reading
books is to try to really understand what it is that is happening in the book.
Not just from a plot perspective, but from a human perspective.
What is that person going through?
What is that like for that person?
What are they thinking?
And I get to a point where I'm so engaged, I feel like I'm becoming the off.
I feel like I'm in the book sometimes when I'm reading it.
So that is another good way to keep it engaging.
Because if you're seeing it from the outside and you're not really in it, well then it's
just not as engaging simply put.
If you get into it and you start thinking about that person, you go back, you don't do
a little Wikipedia search on the author and so you can they are.
That gives you like a little insight.
And that helps me.
Now I connect with them.
I know that they're from New Jersey.
I know that they went to this college.
I know that they played soccer.
So now what I'm reading about them and going, oh yeah, that must, oh, you know.
So I try and get a little background on that person.
It gives me a little bit more engagement.
That's my reading habits.
It's kind of advanced.
And it makes more sense.
I think that like how you say you want to put yourself in the guy's head, you know.
Actively I'm going to consciously put myself in the guy's head.
Sometimes people are so good at writing where that just happens naturally.
But when you do that, it's like you can kind of get, you get the story, of course.
But most of the time when you do it all the time, it's lessens learned.
Like what do you learn?
Almost like when your head is in it, like that, all the lessons are just flying into
your brain.
Because it's almost like you're doing like you're going through that war or that particular
ambush or something like that.
And then you know, they talk about the mistakes and all that.
But you feel the mistake.
Yeah.
And also I have some experience with what they're talking about.
Oh yeah, it's like a hell of a...
And I'm not saying, I'm telling you right now, I don't have even close to the experience.
Of the books that I'm reading on this podcast, these guys that were in the Battle of Ewo G.
Man, the Battle of the Bulge.
No, nothing I did compared to anything that they do.
But do I know what it's like to be waiting to go into a bad situation?
Do I know what it's like to be shot at?
Do I know what it's like to have guys get wounded?
Yeah, I know what that's like.
So that's a little connection too.
But I think, you know, everybody that's been in stressful situations of any kind.
You can say, oh, what must that feel like?
Hey, I know what it's like when I was waiting to go in for a job interview and I was completely stressed out.
And that's what this guy must be feeling right here.
Only even worse.
So then you make that little mental connection, little mental leap.
And you can look like you said you can then learn more from it.
Yeah.
Which is important.
Yeah, so if I'm going into this particular situation in a book, I'm reading it.
And I'm not as engages, maybe I could be.
This guy goes through XYZ experience.
I'm looking at it from my opinion, like, well, I can handle that kind of thing.
But this guy is a type of guy who that's maybe part of his weakness or something like that.
And vice versa, where, you know, like, I don't know something about claustrophobia.
I might be like, dang.
But that claustrophobia part of it, part of the story isn't necessarily a huge part of
the lesson that you're trying to get from it.
So you might miss, there might be some disconnects there if you don't.
Because they have a certain intention.
And you have a certain intention.
So if you're the lesson lessons learned, you might miss some of those lessons.
Just the feeling for sure.
Missing for sure.
I'm not going to get everything out of a book.
That's why when you, that's why when you get a really good book, you read it multiple times.
And you get more out of it every single time that you read it.
No doubt about that one.
Yes, true.
Next question.
Is it okay if extreme ownership sometimes feels inauthentic?
For example, taking ownership of something not really your responsibility.
When does extreme ownership become excessive self-belaming?
Okay, so again, this was two questions.
There was multiple questions like this on the interwebs.
If extreme ownership feels inauthentic or if you're taking ownership of something that's
not really your responsibility.
So yes, there is a chance that you're going
too far.
However, the chances are is that there really is something that you can do about it.
And too often people say, we know it's just something I couldn't control.
For example, there's things that you have zero control over.
You can easily just say, hey, that I couldn't control that and therefore I can't take
ownership of it, for like for instance, if we were planning an operation and the weather
went bad.
And so now our vehicles got stuck.
So we could say, hey, you know, weather got bad.
There's nothing I could do about it.
And that's people say, well, yeah, you can't control the weather.
No human being can control the weather.
Well guess what?
You could make that excuse and be okay with it.
Guess what else you could do?
Hey, I didn't have a good contingency plan for bad weather for rain.
We should have brought toe ropes with us.
We should have brought a winch with us so we could get out.
That's what I should have done.
I should have done.
So yes, even though it's really easy and it's like a 90% to just say, hey, it was bad
weather and nothing I could do about it.
You could do something about it.
And that's when when you start making those excuses, they're going to hurt you.
Same thing in the business world, right?
Oh, you know, the market.
I can't control the market, right?
The market went down.
We weren't expecting it to go down.
And now, you know, there's nothing we could do about it wasn't my fault.
Really, because what you could have done was diversify your income streams, right?
You could have diversified your income streams.
So you weren't right 100% on this one segment of the market and now you're suffering.
But all you do is say, well, you know, not my fault.
You know, we can't control the market that market went down.
Well, actually you can control your position.
You control how you were set up strategically.
You didn't do that.
So when you do those things, it's generally there is something you could have done about it.
There's generally something you could have done about it.
And so if it feels authentic, sure question yourself, but then say, okay, what could
I have done about this?
And I would say this, even when you're with your troops and you say, look, I didn't
have full control of the market.
I should have done this a little bit better. We should have planned to diversify our income
streams better.
I didn't do that.
Here's where we're out.
Here's where we're going to move forward.
The guys aren't going to say, like, hang you out to dry because you took ownership of
that thing.
They're going to realize, look, a job is taking ownership of that.
That's cool.
We did get shafted by the market and, oh, well, less and learned we're going to move
forward.
But when you just come in and say, hey, market went down, not my fault.
You lose respect to your guys.
So don't do that.
Now, all that being said, is there situations where or are there situations where extreme
ownership actually does become excessive self-blaming and the answer is yes, because there
are certain situations where there actually is nothing that you could do.
So for example, and this is a great example speaking of lessons learned from the book company
commander that we just went over on the podcast, Captain McDonald, they got assaulted by,
like basically the entire German army.
And they were left to try and hold the line with pistols and rifles against tiger tanks,
right, an 88 millimeter guns and thousands and thousands of troops attacking them.
He could not have stopped them.
Like you cannot stop a division of soldiers with a company of soldiers.
You can't do it.
Especially when they have artillery and they have tanks and you don't have any tank support,
it's it's an unwinnable situation.
So for him to continually blame himself and say, I should have planned better.
Could he say that?
Sure.
He did what he did with the information that he knew at the time.
If he would have known it was a division attack, they would have set up differently.
He thought he was just setting up a typical defensive perimeter.
So can you get to a point where you're blaming yourself excessively?
Yes, you can.
And you do need to be somewhat cognizant of that.
I'm going to tell you those cases are extremely rare, extremely rare.
Most of the time you have a lot more control over your own destiny than you think you
do.
And the worst thing you can do is continually say, you know what?
This is one of those rare instances where I had no control.
It's probably not, probably an instance where you did have control.
So keep it in the back of your mind, but keep in the front of your mind ownership.
It seems like excessive self-blaming.
That sounds like, you know, maybe someone who's fully blaming themselves and then like,
instead of taking action to, you know, implement corrective measures, something like
this they're like, I suck and maybe they go into a depression or something like this.
Or yeah, whether you're in the China.
Yeah, what you're getting.
Yeah, absolutely.
They dwell on it.
Yeah.
They dwell on the mistake.
They dwell on the fact that things didn't go their way.
They dwell on the fact that it's their fault.
And now they're like you said, gunshot, that's great.
Indecisive.
Yeah.
People get indecisive.
So no, yeah, those are great points.
You definitely don't want to do that excessive ownership where it gets to a point where it
turns you into an indecisive person that's not going to make decisions because you're
a scared you're going to fail.
You don't trust yourself anymore.
Yeah, that's a great point.
That is excessive.
What you need to do is say, okay, this was the problem.
This was my fault.
Here's what I'm going to do to fix it.
I'm going to move on.
We can't do all on the stuff that happened in the past.
Can't do it.
Good point.
That how you know how early, how you kind of started this where if you, if you, let's
say, okay, the opposite.
Let's say you're a believer.
Right.
You're like, something goes wrong.
You blame someone.
If someone's blaming me for something, for everything, you know, all the time.
Of course, you know, the defense comes up and all this stuff that always happens.
But after a while, they build that rep as being a blamer.
You know, so now just, it starts to become automatic that your defensive against this guy.
You don't trust them all this stuff.
But the same kind of goes opposite.
You know how like, you know, if someone's always taking responsibility for the whole deal,
they're not blaming you at all.
They're like, no, it's my fault.
No, it's my fault.
They're correcting it.
They're, you almost, you have a bunch of stories like this where guys are like, no, it's
my fault.
And they all want to jump in, you know, and so the point there is like, after a while,
you build that rep where it's automatic.
People will automatically not have any kind of defense or whatever.
They're automatically want to solve problems.
Yeah.
That's true, too.
That rep, and building trust is how you put it.
It is building trust.
It is indeed.
Interesting.
Next question.
What made you choose literature for your degree?
You know, again, I think I've answered this before, probably a few times.
So I'll keep it brief, but people, a bunch of people did ask along those lines, along
a question along those lines.
The reason I wanted to become better at English and the reason I studied English in
college is because I had seen the importance of language in the military.
Written and spoken.
So written, you're doing evaluations, you're writing and reading and receiving orders,
you're writing and receiving rules of engagement, concept of operations, awards, field
manual.
All these things that you do in the military are written either you're writing them or
you're reading them.
So to be able to write well and to be able to read and understand well is very important.
On top of that, the spoken word, you're doing briefings, you're giving up orders,
you're doing interviews or you're getting interviewed, you're doing, even doing like interrogations.
All these things are spoken word.
So the better command you have of the English language, the better going to be at those
and furthermore in that book that we read the Armed Forces Officer, 1955 edition, I think
it is.
I don't have the code on me, but leadership is communicating.
That's what it is.
It's communicating with other people.
What the idea is, what the goal is.
So communication is the use of words.
So the better you can use words, the better job you're going to do as a leader.
And that's what I realized when I was had the opportunity to go to college and got
to pick my degree.
That's why I picked it.
Pretty simple.
They get also it seems like when somebody's your boss or your leader in whatever the
capacity, someone misuses a word or they'll say the word, they'll say irregardless.
You don't want it, you totally said that wrong.
After all, you kind of like, just that feeling like it.
Disrespect this person.
Well, like, he goes out of Facebook or Ant.
Even if he's not your boss, he's on a Facebook or whatever, clear.
Because on this rant, but then he's like misusing your or failing to put a period.
It's almost like you have that feeling, like you can't take them seriously.
You want them to take you.
We're just important.
Yeah.
It is definitely important.
Not because technically, how much bearing does that really have?
It does the idea of something.
But it just seems that way.
At the same time, it does.
And I'll tell you, one thing, I'm not a good speller.
If it wasn't for spell check, I'd spell all kinds of stuff wrong.
I never studied spelling because when I was a kid, I wasn't, because that's when you
learn to spell.
I think when you're a kid, I didn't pay much attention to spelling.
I never have.
So just the fact that you care, though, that's like the major part of it.
You know, you're like, okay, there's spell check.
Yeah.
And one thing that's cool is, by the way, you don't need to major in English to get good
at writing a good, good at communicating.
You can major in anything as long as you be nice to take a couple courses, though.
And when you do start diving in, and I'll tell you Shakespeare is a big one.
When you start diving into understanding Shakespeare for real, you really learn how to read.
Well, you really learn how to read well.
And when you submit papers that are being graded by somebody that is a master with grammar
and they're picking you apart, you learn how to write better.
There's no doubt about it.
And so that's why I enjoyed both those aspects, both reading and truly understanding
stuff and writing and being graded in such a way that someone saying, hey, you didn't
need to use this word.
You could have shortened this sentence.
And basically, everyone's goal is to make things cleaner and shorter most of the time.
Pretty though, is to me the most important factor. I want to make sure that what I'm saying
is very clear.
So, yeah, English, I took a class called Advanced Grammar and Syntax.
Dig it.
And I just, I would have taken multiple classes if they had the only one.
That's all you.
Yeah.
That was one of the best things I did was when, because my guys had to write evaluations,
the guys, my subordinate leadership would have to write evaluations when I was at the,
it happens my whole career, but what once I became an officer.
But when I was at the training command, I had a hundred guys or so, probably more than that.
But everyone had to have an evaluation written.
And so it was the senior guys, the senior, my subordinate leadership, my direct subordinate
leadership would write their evaluations.
And so, if you didn't police these guys up and they'd get go, there were v issues.
So, I brought them in and I said, hey, bring me your best evaluation of your best guy.
And so they brought them in, we put them up on the screen and I murdered them all.
And it was so good because they all got so much out of it.
You probably need to go through that drill like one time, maybe two times, of someone
murdering your writing.
Because all you do is you start off, you just read their sentence to them.
And it's all you do, you start off, you just read their sentence.
Just what they have written, you just read it.
And they go, and you say, is that what you're trying to say?
They don't know.
I just stop, stop, you know, I'll go back.
Because a lot of times when you read something allowed to yourself, you recognize how
jacked up, you wrote it.
So that's like less than number one in writing with more clarity.
Just read your sentences and see what they sound like.
So you can't really read your own note, right?
Because when you read your own, you know exactly what you were saying.
You can read your own.
But and that will be helpful.
But yes, sometimes you'll already have an idea in your head, so you won't get the full
benefit of having someone else read it allowed to you.
Relax.
It's true.
So yeah, English is definitely important.
And in his fun too, I enjoy one of the odd things like for Twitter.
I have fun feeding something into 140 characters.
Like that's enjoyable to be.
I know that's like a twisted thing.
It's only a little puzzle.
Yeah, it's a little puzzle.
Or could I use them maybe I could look at the, get it in there.
That's kind of fun for me.
I thought something, I thought you had that kind of fun in some of the English classes
that I took where I was trying to just get the perfect words.
And so there's a little puzzle too.
It's a lot of fun.
It can be fun.
If you have that type of personality.
Yeah.
Interestingly, you're not I don't find you to be a grammar Nazi.
No, I wouldn't say I'm a grammar Nazi much.
Because I just don't think I'm an over grammar Nazi.
I think I think I find it.
I think I kind of just say, oh yeah, that's poorly written.
Yeah, to yourself, can I call myself?
I mean, unless it's someone that is going to turn something in and I just have to say,
hey man, it's not good.
Which technically that's not being a grammar Nazi.
Grammar Nazis like me and you are telling you about, you know, you get through something
or beat the beach and you're like, you know, I correct you.
I don't, yeah, I don't do that a lot.
Because you know why?
Partially, not a lazy, not cool.
But it's a conversation, right?
Yeah.
And I was going to say something about like being from the streets, which is a major exaggeration
because I'm not from the streets.
Although I spent some time in the streets.
But, you know, I enjoy language, right?
I enjoy language.
And so when somebody speaks improperly, I actually like it.
It's a different, it's a different thing.
I mean, even Corn Mac McCarthy, probably my favorite writer, he doesn't, he does all kinds
of crazy things.
He doesn't use a lot of punctuation.
He doesn't use quotes.
So you're dealing with a whole other ballgame.
I'm not good slamming him.
Yeah.
And honestly, it makes it harder, in many cases, it makes it harder to read what he's
written.
And people say, well, he says that you should need quotations.
So I'm not going to say here in a criticized Corn Mac.
Yeah, I do it.
Probably that makes so much sense.
I never thought about that.
How you how, two things actually, where, yeah, you like it.
There's these memes and they're so funny.
Where I'll just have a picture, maybe familiar, maybe not.
And then I'll have like some little thing on top of it.
Like, how you know what?
How you know what?
And then when you go through your phone, I don't know.
And a lot of those memes are just no grammar.
No, it's almost like just an ignorant person wrote it.
And it makes it way more funny.
So overall, the point there is like, people talk in pigeon or something like that or
with a crazy accent, their English not the, it can be more enjoyable experience.
It's a more in-depth experience for sure.
So there's that.
And at the same time, there are few, there are certain situations where if you misuse
a comma or misuse or don't put quotes or something like that, you can literally say something
different than their, you know, misunderstanding skin kind of creep in.
Yeah, and people ask me about, I hate to bring this up right now, because this is just like
a bloodbath argument.
But the Oxford comma, which you can look at in the interwebs.
But it's basically when you say a list of things, the last thing that you're going to
say, which normally you say, and this, the Oxford comma, as you put a comma before that
and.
And for me, it makes things very, very clear.
And the reason some people don't use it, it came from the new, I think it came from
newspaper where they're trying to, you know, fit stuff in the column and they're going
to fit stuff in the newspaper.
So they, hey, we can get rid of that comma.
It's not needed.
That's kind of where it started.
But it's not proper.
And hey, sometimes it makes sense, but a lot of times it doesn't.
So anyways, that's one small example.
And the other funny thing, because I was talking about corn mac macarze, I'm going to say
this little thing too, because it reminded me of it.
Another thing in the success magazine interview or article, wasn't interviews and article.
He said the writer, who's a good dude, he said.
The article rarely does interviews, right?
And that's when Tim Ferriss said that two years ago, Tim Ferriss was 100% correct, because
I had done zero interviews.
So he could have said, and he's never done an interview before.
Tim Ferriss would have been speaking the truth.
And he was at the time.
Since then, I don't know how many freaking interviews I have done.
I have done an interview upon an interview upon an interview upon an interview.
It's ridiculous.
And I put in my little Facebook rubuddle to the argument, or my comments about the or
corrections to the article.
I said, I actually do interviews all the time.
If you want someone that rarely does interviews, that's corn mac macarze.
Because corn mac macarze, he doesn't do interviews.
He does, he's got what?
I think he's done one interview in the past 20 years with Oprah Winfrey.
That's it.
20 years.
One of the most, you know, one of the best writers of our time living today.
You know, is he going to come on the podcast?
Nope.
He's not.
He really comes on podcast.
He should come on this podcast.
Even I agree.
But, yeah.
Also, if you, if you see a lot of misuse grammar and you let it go and you see a lot
of it, you get better at understanding it.
You know, like, you know how certain people they're like, oh, this guy's accent is too
thick.
You know, I can't understand them.
I mean, while the guy next to you is like, oh, I heard that accent before plenty times.
Right.
You know, my neighbor is Jamaican or whatever.
So they understand, it's kind of like that idea.
You know, people misusing words, grammar all messed up.
But if you used to that, you're like, oh, I see what they're saying.
He has a lot to do with the context as well.
But I'm just saying if you're familiar with that situation.
So it kind of expands your mind to allow people to use bad grammar.
Yeah.
That's not to say you should use bad grammar.
I'm just saying from the standpoint of understanding.
I could see where you're coming from, I'm not sure that I would completely buy into that.
But we'll go with it for this.
Can't stand on time.
I'll go with it.
Well, you're right.
In the fact that some people can understand accents really well.
Yeah.
And for me, it depends on the accent.
Some accents I can understand find, some accents I can't.
Yeah, it has to do with what you're familiar with.
Yes.
Yes, you are correct.
Next question.
Juckle.
What do you think about mechanical warrior robots in the seal teams?
Again, this is a question where people ask me this because there's weird hype and what's
the word conspiracy.
Type attitude about artificial intelligence and robots and all that.
And so my thoughts are robots.
Like warfiting robots.
Awesome.
This build the most awesome destruction robots.
And let's build an army of them.
And let's let them get after it.
I think it's awesome.
You look at what's happening right now with drones and unmanned air vehicles.
That's where we're going.
In another, I forget the name.
I mean, I forget the specific timeframe.
But in 10, 20, 30 years, there's not going to be any more manned fighter jets, military
fighter jets.
Why would you do that?
You could put a computer in there and you can fly it from the ground or you can either
need to fly it.
It'll do with your mission that you want it to do.
So when we can come up with a robot that a terminator robot that can go and attack and
take care of the problem, yeah, let's do that.
I support it.
I hit the whole idea that robots will turn against us.
Will build better robots that will kill those robots.
I'm not worried about that.
Or if I robots.
Yeah, I don't care.
I say, bring it on, bring on the robots.
Yeah.
I'm sure.
Yes, too.
I know.
Like Joe Rogan, you'd be freaking out about some robots.
And I think, you know, pretty much everybody, I'm probably the ignorant person here, right?
Because the smart people, like Elon Musk in Sam Harris, they're all, you know, you
got to watch out because this artificial intelligence is going to become smarter than us.
And then what are we going to do?
It's going to attack us and control us.
Yeah, their thing is if it lines up that they ultimately figure out and they won't be
wrong.
That's the view.
If they figure out that they don't need us, then the logical thing would be to eliminate
us.
Like everybody and everything does ever.
You know?
Yeah.
I got to admit, like that sounds pretty cool.
I say bring it.
I want that robot war.
Let's get it on.
Well, typically robots, I mean, we say unmanned.
I have a question for you.
How about we unplug them, right?
Cut their power source.
Yeah.
Typically, I mean, even that, I don't think it, I think that's a simple thing for a robot
if they're smart to understand, oh, they might very well cut our power source.
So they're going to figure that out pretty quick.
I would imagine if they're turning.
But I like the way Sam Harris described artificial intelligence one time, though.
He said, imagine that you, that I ask you a question.
And then you have a year to go and research and come up with the perfect answer and then
you come back and you answer that question, but it happens in a millisecond.
That's what a computer's going to be able to do.
Yeah.
And that's pretty awesome.
And do they end up then, and I don't, you know, I'm not a, I don't even know what you
call a person that theorizes about this kind of thing.
I'm not one of them.
But that's pretty unbelievable.
And it'll only get faster and better from there.
I just think that I don't think it's too hard to control it to put controls in there
that prevent the turning of the robots.
Like preventative mechanisms.
Yeah.
Well, you talk about unmanned stuff.
And you know what I'm about to make a movie reference.
It is.
Robo cop.
I think the story of that had some kind of a mechanism there.
The directives.
It wasn't allowed to kill.
Wait, what's, is it a prime directive?
What's that from?
Is that from Robo cop?
I think so.
I know they're uphold the law, protect the incident.
I'm not doing it in order.
Something about trust.
See, if you were AI, you'd be able to come back with a perfect answer.
But you program in that you can't hurt humans or whatever.
Right.
Whatever.
Like, over this, you know what?
You know what?
Let's, this is another situation.
Let's see where it goes.
I'm good.
Yeah.
But the unmanned family is based on patterns, you know, so the unmanned thing, usually
you're not going to find something that's really technically unmanned.
Even a drone is not unmanned.
It's just less man.
They can be unmanned.
You're somebody, well, yeah, somebody programmed it out where to go.
But you can put a drone in the sky that's going to go this soon.
Yeah, but see what you say, you can put.
Someone's got to put them in the sky.
Someone's got to have a launch.
Somebody's got to have a launch.
So it's going to be manned.
Like, the intentions of something like that first intention of something is going to be
manned.
Once you give that up then you're like, okay, now you got some problems.
Yeah.
Yeah, again, I'm just not sitting around worried about this kind of thing.
So I'll let Joe Rogan and Sam Harris and Elon Musk worry about keeping the robots
in line.
You know what, I'll be ready to fight him if they need me.
Bring it.
Yep.
Sure.
Next question.
Unless you want to talk about rule that somewhere.
No.
Or robot cup.
Yeah.
See, even robot cup was manned.
He was a man, part man, part man.
No, but the big machine that the initial one that caused the problem is, who Ed Toon
9?
The thing that looks like a, they had big legs.
Yeah, Ed Toon 9, man.
Yeah.
The malfunction in murder.
You have four seconds to comply.
Yeah.
You have three seconds to comply.
You have two seconds to comply.
Who shot it off?
Bro, the first time you watched that, bro, that was, that was tense.
Well, that was a harsh scene.
Oh, you loved it though.
Yeah, that was just so.
Ed Toon 9.
Jockel.
What's your favorite submission?
Real quick, again, trying to do a little rapid fire here, because people ask me this all
the time, favorite submissions.
Cause I got to go play all that one.
God.
But, uh, Camira and Guilletinseen, those are my two favorite submissions I think.
The reason why is because they're both really effective,
ghee and no ghee, they're both really effective
from the bottom, right?
You can do them from the top,
you can do them from half guard,
you can do them from mount,
you can do them from a lot of different positions,
you can do them in the street,
you can do them in MMA, and you can do them in GITS.
So I just like the fact that they're
kind of universal positions and very effective
in every aspect of GITS.
Yeah, yeah, those are good.
I'd go for the ghee or...
Rear and I could choke.
And the rear and I could choke for sure.
Yeah, those are ones that you don't,
like, they're big, they're like granddad.
There's a few of them, the granddaddy submissions.
Yeah.
Yeah, and you could say, Armlock is one of the granddaddies.
I just find the camera to be a higher percentage move.
Right, right.
Now lately, my last several years,
I've been using more straight arm locks again,
but like Armbarra that just a straight arm.
Both, yeah.
Both.
Because all my training partners are so good
at defending my community.
Yes.
That I have to go to alternate moves.
Actually, I surprised you the other day with a,
you were kind of like, you were kind of depressed too.
You remember what I'm talking about?
Cause you like, cause a few weeks ago.
It was probably more than that.
But I remember your reaction,
your reaction was sort of, yeah.
Like, I can't believe he got me with Armlock.
And I even like made it a comment.
Yeah, you're in the role like when you were going for him.
Like, like, you're doing it.
And it's kind of like, turn up, turn up the heat.
When I say, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
I don't like when people challenge.
It's very shallow.
It's a sharp turn.
All right.
Yeah, those are good.
I agree.
Next question.
Juck him.
You discussed making sure your teams have the freedom
to make strategic changes to the plan
if needed.
What if you're developing a system with your team?
And you begin to get push back from them
before you feel the core values are established?
So this is a really good question once again.
You start calling up with your plan.
And you already started getting some push back
from the boys on what it is.
Well, what do you do?
Listen to them.
Why are they pushing back?
You know what I mean?
Maybe they have some good points.
Is that possible?
Maybe you're a little bit off base on the plan
that you're coming up with or the strategy
that you're coming up with.
Maybe you're not.
Of course, that's always possible.
Do maybe they're wrong and you're right.
But here they're out.
You know, if I say, hey, we're going to hit the target
from this direction here.
And my team disagrees with what I'm saying?
Well, why are they disagreeing?
What's the reason for that?
You know, how do they think we should do it?
They see the English are coming from the south
and I think we should come from the north.
Why do they think that?
Now, if I know something is right and I am right,
then guess what?
I can explain it to them and they'll say, oh,
Jocco, we didn't know that.
We didn't know that there was defenses
that we hadn't been told about to the south
and why that's why we should come into the north or we didn't
know that the sun would be at our back from the north
and that's why we didn't know that at the time.
And so you're right.
Now, if I can't explain it to them,
if I can't give them a reason,
why my strategy or my plan is better,
then there's something wrong with my plan.
Or there's something wrong with my ability
to explain it to them.
So, if you're doing the right things for the right reasons,
you'll be able to convince your team
of the strategy or of the plan.
And if you can't, it's a hint
that maybe you need to adapt your strategy
or maybe you need to adapt your plan.
Now be advised, this is not easy.
This is not easy to do.
First of all, you have to get your ego in check, right?
Because you think you've come up with the plan
and you think it's the master plan.
So you have to put your ego in check.
Secondly, you might actually have the best plan,
but maybe you don't have the ability
to articulate the nuances of the plan.
And so your guys, you get a guy that's a really articulate guy
that's arguing with you on his plan.
And he's actually winning the argument,
even though your plan might be better.
That's a tough situation to be in.
So that means you've got to really get in the weeds.
Now, one thing that you could do in that situation
is say, hey, I'm in charge, shut up, listen to me.
And again, this might be a situation where you're right
and they're wrong, but if you can't articulate
that properly, and now you only way to do it
is to pull right on them.
Hey, you're gonna go backwards, right?
You're gonna go backwards.
So you have to be very careful of that.
Again, this is why it's important to have good command
of the English language.
That's why it's important to listen.
That's why it's important to take people's ideas.
And that's the thing with being a leader, okay?
I have an open mind, I have open ears, listen,
communicate and lead your team.
Not by rank, right?
But by being able to discern and uncover
and mold and shape the best possible plan
and the best possible strategy
by and through understanding everyone's perspectives
and ideas and then taking all those perspectives
and all those ideas and coordinating them
into a unified thought that leads the team to victory.
That is hard.
That is hard to do.
Yeah.
But the minute, again, the minute that I'm telling
somebody, hey, no, just do it my way.
I know that there's something wrong here.
Either I'm not articulating, right?
Which means I should take the time
because if I'm right in your wrong,
we should be able to get there to where you see that.
We should be able to get there.
We could also get to a point where it's 61.5 does in the other.
Right?
We could get to that point too.
And at that point, you know what I'm gonna do?
You know what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna use your plan.
If it's 61.5 does the other, I'm gonna use your plan.
Echo says, come in from the North,
I say come in from the West.
We look at the pros and cons of each.
I'm gonna go with your plan.
Would you want to come in from the West?
Yeah, okay.
If it's 50, 50, I'm gonna go with your plan.
I'm gonna give it to you.
I'm gonna give you the ownership.
That's what I'm gonna do.
Even, I'll tell you, even, 60, 40.
I'm probably gonna give it to you.
We get to, you know, 70, 30.
Now you're gonna see it.
You're gonna see the light.
If you have any brain,
now you could also be an Eagle maniac.
Right?
Who's like, my way, my way, my way.
Now we've got to break through that.
How do we do that?
It's not by attacking your plan,
which you're gonna defend
because you're an Eagle maniac.
Instead, I'm gonna say,
well, tell me the benefits of your plan.
Let's weigh it out between your plan and my plan.
Maybe we adapt your plan a little bit.
Oh, I like what you did here.
I see where you're coming from.
That's a really good point.
I didn't think of that.
But also we need to consider this
that I didn't, you know, we didn't know before.
So now we got to adjust.
So those are the things that are hard.
Those are the things that are hard about being a leader.
But the best thing you can do,
open your mind, open your ears,
listen to what people are saying,
take it on board,
if their plan is better than yours,
great use it.
If it's not better than yours,
okay, articulate the reasons why.
Have the conversations with them.
Don't be scared.
It's a slick move.
I didn't think of that.
Oh, for you.
That's nice.
Got to build up the ego if they got their baby ego.
We got to find a flank.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's good.
Get other people's perspectives.
Because it can seem like a 50 50
or it can seem like 60 40, you know.
But it can also seem like a 64 or 70 30,
your plan is better,
but to them 70 30,
their plan is better because of their perspective.
Let's say they,
they, there's rats.
Drawing down this trail.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
If you didn't know that,
you know, you're like,
for rats who cares kind of thing.
Yeah.
Dang.
Really, you're dead.
Dogs would be a better thing.
Sure.
To say rats aren't going to interfere with your mission.
Dogs start barking.
And maybe they had,
they had somebody,
they read an intel report that said,
there was a bunch of dogs up in this,
this, you know,
residents to the north.
So we want to come in from the west.
I didn't know that.
I didn't do good.
So now it's easy, easy thing to convince me of.
Yeah.
But all we have to do is have the conversation.
Understand the perspective.
Talk and communicate.
Dogs dogs.
With your ages.
Put your egos and check.
Yeah.
Or snakes, by the way,
if you're in the end of your illness,
or something like this.
Next question.
Jockel.
Have you encountered any gaps in the leadership capabilities of officers from west point or the other academy?
Okay.
So for those of you don't know what the service academies are.
There's West Point. There's the Naval Academy, which gives you Navy and Marine Corps officers.
West Point gives you Army officers the Air Force Academy gives you Air Force officers and the Coast Guard Academy gives you Coast Guard officers.
There are four years.
Their military school.
They're really hard to get into.
They're extremely competitive.
They have massive amount of tradition at all of them.
And they are highly disciplined and hard to get through.
So.
You would think.
Right. That what I just said would produce a and a standard, a very high standard of an outstanding officer.
The fact of the matter is in my career.
It really makes no difference.
It's because there's other ways that you can have officers, other avenues that officers come from.
They can come from ROTC, which is when you know you go to a regular college and you basically take classes about being an officer and you get shown how to wear uniform and all that.
You go to OCS, which is when you graduate from college, you go to a program for 13 weeks or however long each service has a little bit different in the Navy.
For me, I went to OCS. It was 13 weeks.
That was after being enlisted for eight years.
You know, you can be a priori.
I like me, which is you get your commission after you've been in the military.
And so all those.
I've I had outstanding officers or I worked without standing officers from each one of those commissioning sources.
I had outstanding naval academy guys, outstanding West Point guys, outstanding ROTC guys, outstanding OCS guys, just outstanding guys.
Great leaders.
And guess what?
I also had crap leaders that were from the academy.
Crap leaders that were from West Point, crap leaders that were from OCS, crap leaders that from ROTC.
So and crap. And by the way, probably the the biggest example of the disparity of good and bad is prior and listed.
So prior and listed means that you are an enlisted grunt, you are a frontline trooper in the Seal teams are in the military.
And then you get your commission. That's what I did.
And I had great officers that were like that.
And I also knew horrible officers that were like that.
So for me, it doesn't really matter what your commissioning source is.
It matters who you are as a person and who you are as a leader.
And if you have those characteristics that make you a good leader, if you're humble, if you listen, if you're dynamic, if you're articulate, all those things that make a good leader.
If you have them, it doesn't really matter your commissioning source.
And if you don't have them, doesn't really matter your commissioning source.
That's what I've experienced in my time.
So it is interesting. I thought when I first joined the military, I thought these guys that came from the Naval Academy that I'm going to work with in the Seal teams.
They're going to be really awesome because they went to four years of leadership training and learning how to lead.
And I mean, Brian stands a great example, right? You can hear he got a lot out of the level of the Naval Academy.
Well, it's on just the way he talked about it.
I bet that Brian stand would be an outstanding officer.
If he went to the Naval Academy, if he went to OCS or if he went to ROTC, he's got a great.
Did he learn lessons there? Yes, but he had an open mind to learn those things.
And so yeah, the service academies are definitely awesome and really great tradition in all those.
But I don't think you need to go to a service academy to be a good officer.
And I don't think it really matters what matters is what kind of leader and person you are.
Is that the kind of deal where you just never know who you're going to get at the end because some people they're really good at.
You know, these people don't get really good grades, but out in the field they do substandard performance wise.
Because they're good at getting good grades or they're good at taking classes kind of thing.
Good memorizing or whatever.
Yeah, yeah.
And then yeah, interesting.
But you don't know what you're getting as a person.
Well, how are they brought up?
Right.
You know, Brian stands story cool about how he got brought up.
You know, he just very, you could see that he wasn't taught his leadership ability in my opinion.
At the Naval Academy did he learn there?
Yes.
Did he take away a lot from it?
Anybody that heard him would probably think, definitely would would love to go to the Naval Academy.
But you know, you listen to his story of his life.
He learned a lot prior to he learned a lot at when he was at the TBS, the basics.
Well, he just learned a lot and he had an open mind.
He was a humble guy and a hard worker.
That's what makes you a great officer.
You know, that type of thing.
Yeah.
Next question.
Do smaller built dudes have a niche for SLF world for the SLF world?
Soft world.
Yeah.
Special operations forces.
Do you say soft?
Yeah.
No, no, no, no.
Okay.
Smaller built dudes have a niche for the soft world.
Any advantages, disadvantages with physical size or of operators?
Well, the special ops guys coming all shapes inside of this.
For sure, they are.
Can be big giant monster guys and they can be little tiny skinny,
Yery guys and that's the way it is.
And they're all needed in in the special operations community.
You know, if you look at your average point man, your average point man is a
Yery light guy that's quick and nimble and.
You look at your average machine gunner.
He's a big, awesome dude that can tow it around a bunch of weight.
But also there's a bunch of skinny, little guys that are carrying a machine gun.
There's some big guys that walk point.
And that's the way it is.
So is there is there a niche for certain body types?
Yeah, I mean, there is if you're a big guy, you should carry something big like a
like a machine gun.
If you're a small guy, you should try and be in a situation where you're carrying a
little bit of a lighter load like a point man or a weird security dude.
But both do both and there's a bunch of other, I mean, you know, you look at a
radio man, radio man's got to carry a ton of weight too.
So yeah, there's no real, there's no real.
Advantage or disadvantage.
I would say you don't want to be that big.
And you don't want to be that small, but if you are.
Get some, you know, get some.
There's just the way it is.
There's going to be things that are way harder for a bigger guy.
In the seal teams and in special operations, and there's going to be things that are
harder for a smaller guy.
And that's the way it is.
So, you know, if you've got to do submarine lockouts and you're a big guy,
you're going to be in a little escape trunk, a little six foot sphere with a bunch of gear
in there.
It's not fun to be a big giant guy at that point.
No.
And when you get to the beach after you lock out the submarine, and you're going to carry
a 55 horsepower motor across the beach into a cash site, and you're, you weigh
143 pounds.
That's not going to be fun for you.
You want that big 260 pounder to come over and throw that motor on a shoulder and
carry it into position.
So that's why you have everything at a seal pool tune.
That's why diversity is good in terms of body styles.
Next question.
Good morning.
Do you ever get edgy, perhaps, hangry?
You know, the end of a fast.
If so, how do you deal with it?
I tend to have more difficulty controlling my emotions during the last few hours.
Thank you.
Anyone that listens to me very often will probably know what I'm going to say here.
If you think you're going to get edgy or you think you're going to get angry, just be
of aware of it and don't get angry.
Next question.
You know what I mean?
Like, yeah, if you're hungry and you're frustrated because you have an eaten and now it's
starting to get to you, just don't do that.
Yeah.
I actually, it's kind of like what you're talking earlier about surfing without a leash or about,
you know, parachuting under a pressure situation where I don't know what the hell I'm doing.
But I'm going to do it anyways.
And I get focused on it.
It's the same thing for me.
When I'm doing a fast, I actually enjoy the fact that I'm under some excessive stressful situation.
In fact, I have a like, it better.
You know, I want to feel that.
And then I want to be like, I want to say to myself, hey, you might get frustrated right now because
you haven't eaten and your blood sugars low.
But I'm going to be, I'm going to use the echo Charles approach of, hey, that's weakness, right?
It's weakness for me to be getting angry.
It's weak for me to be complaining because I'm on a tail end of a 72 hour fast.
That's just weakness.
Not going to complain.
What are you talking about?
You don't need to eat for 30 days.
People can go for 30 days without eating.
My daughter, which she was cutting weight for wrestling this past season, she would say that.
She'd say, you know, I'd be getting, she'd say, you know, dad, I would get really hungry.
And then I just think people can live for 30 days without eating.
I think I can make up through the next eight hours.
Come on.
Yeah, yeah.
It's not that big of a deal.
There's no reason to get angry.
That's just an excuse.
Don't do it.
Carry on with your airborne self.
I'll see you know, I'll sit this before.
There's a difference between how you feel and then how you behave.
You know, you can get angry on the inside.
But once you start behaving like, you did some man get angry on the inside.
Yeah.
Exactly.
A trading place.
Yeah.
Very good.
You know, actually now, I think about it.
When I was doing deployments.
Drinking dirty.
Back in the day in the 90s, we watched, there was nothing to do on a ship.
We didn't have an internet.
No one wrote us letters.
No one cared about us.
There was no.
So all we did was play spades and watch movies.
And when movies, we watched for on video tape.
Mm-hmm.
Because this is broken today before CDs before Netflix.
You had video tape when we had a great full of videos.
And so we were watching the same, you know, cheesy movies over and over and over.
Get it probably trading places was one of them.
Yeah.
So if you go back further in the movies, you're not, because what are my five years older than you?
Five or six years.
Yeah.
Five or six years ahead of you on movies.
So there's a whole bunch of cheesy movies that I actually know about.
Oh yeah.
That you might not know about.
Yeah.
And occasionally we're getting an overlap.
Trading places.
I can't agree.
And Murphy the Man.
Oh yeah.
But hangry, right?
Karate Man.
But you don't have the inside.
Ha ha ha.
Hang.
I like that word.
Hangry by the way.
That's in.
20.
But that implies that you're kind of like, oh, I'm hangry.
You know, like, like you're expressing yourself.
Yeah.
You know, don't express yourself.
Your emotions can keep it on the end and act like a winner.
If you feel like a loser on the inside, you can feel hangry.
But act like don't act like that.
Don't let it be clear.
Other people see you be all pathetic like that.
It's been like, oh, yeah.
I haven't eaten in four days.
Whatever.
You know what?
Do you hear this joke?
Yeah.
I mean, just, hey, I haven't eaten in six days.
No big deal.
Yeah.
I'm going to go to train your jitter.
What are you doing?
Yeah.
Real.
So yeah.
Oh, what are you doing?
Sitting around being weak.
Don't do that.
I'll be over here doing something else.
Yeah.
So yeah, separate your feeling and your behavior.
And typically, one is the thing.
And you know, you even have a word for it.
Yeah.
You just got like, you crept up on you.
And I had no control over it.
No.
I don't know if I had it.
Gave in a name, everything.
And if, I mean, if Mike's very serves me.
A lot of times when people say like, oh, I've, I get hungry or I'm,
PMS in or I'm whatever.
It's to explain their common behavior.
Meaning they just let it go.
They embrace that's how it is for them.
Yeah.
Kind of thing.
Please forgive me.
I'm angry.
Yeah.
I get like that sometimes.
What are you talking about?
And you just let it go.
You know, be like that on the inside.
Be good on them.
Separate the feelings versus behavior.
Next question.
Stifle your emotions inside.
You know, they say like, if you get like emotions,
you've got to like let it out, punch a pillow or whatever.
Yeah.
I guess as it turns out, that's not true.
No.
Because if you internally know how you, you say stifle them.
Well, the reason I kind of say that with sarcasm is because I think that the,
For instance, yeah, you like you're saying people these days, they say, oh, yeah.
You've got to let your emotions out.
You've got to, you've got to cry cry.
If you, and I understand where that's coming from.
And you can get to a point as a person.
If there's something that's really traumatic that's happening.
And all you do is hold it in.
And I've seen guys get destroyed over that because they're not expressing the emotions
that they have.
But that's at a big level.
Right?
At a daily level?
No.
You don't express those things.
You keep them in charge.
That's what I say.
Like a big kind of sarcastic.
But the same time, I'm a being serious.
Yeah.
You know, it just don't let your emotions out and into the world.
Keep them for yourself.
Yeah.
Don't share them with other people if you don't have to.
Now again, people are going to freak out that I'm saying this because it's very
emotional.
Because that what happens when you bury you when you've got something really traumatic that you bury then it each you apart.
And I've talked about that.
I mean, talking about things that you go through in life and expressing those feelings that you have.
I don't that's good.
But what we're talking about is not that.
What we're talking about is daily emotions, little ups and downs, little tick marks on your Richter scale.
We're not talking about an 8.8 on the Richter scale.
Right?
We're talking about just like little twos.
Yeah.
And when you express those twos and threes on the Richter scale out to people, you just look unstable.
Hangry.
That's a two.
Yeah.
Overall.
And this, I'm not a split here.
It's or nothing.
But overall, it's more about dealing with your emotions.
Quote on quote.
So yeah, if you, if a good, conducive way to deal with your emotions is to let them out.
And there's all good different kinds of emotions.
Like if you're sad, if something's eating you up on the inside because of sadness or whatever.
And it's conducive to your recovery development, whatever, to express those emotions then yes.
But if you're hangry and you lose your temper on your kid, that's not going to
you're not dealing with your emotions correctly.
So in stri-fi emotions.
But it's not really, it is stifling them.
But before you stifle them, you're identifying them.
You're like, oh, hey, I'm hangry.
Okay, I identified that.
I'm going to separate feelings from behavior.
That's dealing with your emotions right there.
That's dealing with it.
It's a great point that oftentimes expressing your emotions to the world doesn't improve
your situation or your position at all.
Correct.
In fact, I would say that most of the time expressing your emotions to the world sets you back.
And that is why I vote in many cases.
Just trifle your emotions.
Keep them in.
Don't let other people see. You put your cards on the table.
Right.
You put your emotional cards on the table.
Now you can't gamble anymore.
You're not in the game anymore.
The person knows what's going on.
You're giving it to them.
You're not going to know what I'm thinking.
You're going to think, I'm just everything is cool with me.
We're training you, Jitsu.
Right.
If I'm getting frustrated and I show that to you, what does that do?
You're getting all the stuff you just go level up.
You think it, oh, I got to be frustrated.
I can't.
I can't work. This is working against them. If I'm just the same face all the time, which is what I do primarily.
Hey, same face all the time. Just work, you know, moving the same way.
When you do get me, I forget what you say.
When you get me to react to something good, recognize the urgency.
Yeah, you say so.
I recognize a little urgency there. And I always go down.
I don't want to recognize.
I'd rather just have you just pass my garden.
Yours is there.
And me just sit there like as no big deal.
Yeah.
It's not.
You meant then me get all panicky.
Yeah.
Where they don't, you level up a little bit.
Mm-hmm.
And it's the same thing with life, right?
Every time you express these big emotions to your boss or to your team, you express these big emotions to your team.
They see all your cards.
Don't let them see all your cards.
Is this manipulating?
Kind of, right?
This is one of those things where people think, oh, transparency.
We hear a lot all the time these days.
Transparency.
You've got to be transparent.
No, actually you don't.
Yeah, no, with that.
You don't have to be transparent all the time.
Yeah.
You have to win the game.
You know what?
Does the football coach go out and hand his playbook to the other football team?
No.
He's got to win the game.
Yeah, typically no.
And that's not how you win the game.
So are we, you know what we're doing?
Playing chess.
It's emotional chess.
You're playing with other human beings.
You want to win.
Now if you're winning, so that I can take advantage of you.
So I can manipulate you and get something from you that you don't want to give me.
That's bad.
I'm not talking about doing that.
But if what I'm doing is keeping my calm so that instead of escalating an argument with you,
I'm getting you to see it from my perspective just by remaining calm, that's what we're talking about here.
You know, late told that story the other day where it, he tells the story.
Lot because it was hilarious story where I came in.
We didn't have a chance to talk to each other as he was planning this big operation.
And I come in 10 minutes before the operation.
Hey, let me see what you're doing and he kind of shows me on a map.
Hey, we're going to go here here and there.
It's like, hey, you should do this instead.
And he was like, do we leave it in 10 minutes?
And I said, man, but just think about it.
He goes, you know what?
Just cancel the op.
He was all mad.
Right.
And you know, he's like in Jocco kind of like laughed at me.
I didn't laugh at him like a jerk.
You know what I was like, hey, man, listen.
Just think about what I'm saying right now.
But that's an example. I didn't show my emotions, which was, which would be more like,
Dude, are you serious right now?
You're going to cancel an op because we have a difference of opinion.
Think about what you, I didn't do that.
I was like, hey, man, I get it.
Who?
Everyone's stressed out right now.
We got to leave on this thing correctly.
Think about what I'm saying.
They'll look at this.
This is all I'm saying.
We could execute this in a better way.
So that's what I'm talking about.
Does that make me manipulative?
No, it doesn't make me manipulative.
It makes us as a team do a better job.
And as soon as life saw that, he was like,
D.S. collated himself. He was good to go.
We move on.
Yeah.
So that's what I'm talking about.
Strikeful your emotions at all times.
You know, and just to address that, though, for real,
when you do see the big emotional, impactful things in someone's life,
and they don't express them that absolutely is bad.
The way you see this a lot is with kids.
You know, kids, teens, where they, they,
they're something bothering them,
and they don't, they hold it in, hold it in.
Because they don't have anybody to talk to.
They can't talk to mom and dad, because mom and dad don't get it.
Their friends are the people that they're pissed off and they're pissed off at
anyways, so they can't tell them what's going on.
So they sit there and they harbor a lot of that anger.
And that can be, that can be very problematic.
And it goes through all through, you know, adults as well.
And, and, you know, at work, sometimes people,
well, they got problems at home.
So they can't talk to their wife, because that's what the problem was.
They can't talk to their husband, because that's the source of the problem.
But then they get to work, and they don't want to look like the person that's got problems at home.
So they're not going to say anything.
They're either, and the next thing you do, what are they doing?
They're trying to escape those problems.
How are they doing it?
Instead of letting those problems out and talking to somebody about them,
they're having to, you know, having a drink in the afternoon,
getting on the alcohol, whatever they're doing, something that's negative.
And they're not moving forward at all.
So those are not the kind of feelings that in emotions that you want to subdue or stifle.
But these little ones and twos and threes on the Richter scale,
being hungry, get, get, get control of those things.
Yeah, stifling certain emotions, ones and twos is a good way to deal with them,
because one of these, because they're usually respond to any emotions.
Yeah, I know.
And they'll, and they'll, they don't have the power to sustain.
Yeah, they're just going to put their there.
And then they just fade away.
And that's cool.
That's why.
Yes.
And then over time, now you're good at dealing with them in that way.
When you get angry and you've been for one year, you've been dealing with it by just ignoring it.
You know, in regards to behavior, just not acting on it.
Now you're good at doing that.
Not automatic.
Now you don't get, you don't act angry anymore.
That's right.
Okay.
This is part question, part opinion.
And podcasts 13, you stated effectively, not explicitly, that jiu-jitsu is the martial art that takes the most time to become proficient.
I disagree.
And here's why.
As a wrestler, I've been able to pick up jiu-jitsu in a matter of about two months to the point where I can submit a blue belt here and there.
I mostly control purple belt, possibly there is white skill range along the belt switch.
I only roll with lower level players.
I might just be a bad teacher, but I've not had as much success teaching jiu-jitsu guys to wrestle.
After the same amount of time, after the same amount of time, there may be a low high school wrestling level.
I found it extremely difficult to teach jiu-jitsu players to shoot penetrate with their hips or effectively use their hips to defend us or scramble.
Possibly my sample size is too small to form an accurate opinion.
But I'm curious of your thoughts on the topic.
Thanks, lovely listening, right?
So, yeah, I guess when I said that, I should have said grappling in general, which is definitely harder to achieve a basic level of competence in rather than striking.
Now don't get me wrong.
You take a skilled boxer.
They will destroy an unskilled boxer.
You take a skilled moi-tai guy.
They will destroy an unskilled moi-tai guy.
You've changed a good moi-tai people before.
The first person that I ever did that with was a skilled moi-tai legit skilled moi-tai.
It was like a black belt versus a white belt.
I would think about throwing a kick at him and he would check it.
And then he would throw a kick at me before I even knew what was happening.
There are that much better.
They can see your hips.
They move to the same thing with boxing.
If you go against a good boxer, they'll jack you up in that sport.
Right?
In that sport, you will get worked.
So, now that being said, a good wrestler is a good grappler.
You are a good grappler.
And that's why you're able to pick up digits who very quickly.
Because wrestling is grappling, which is due to their other differences.
Yes, they're absolutely our differences.
But it's like long-bored surfing and shortboard surfing.
Or baseball and softball.
If you played baseball in college, when you get out on the office softball team, you're a killer.
That's the way it is.
Because you played softball, you played baseball.
You didn't play technically softball.
It's the same thing with wrestling.
And as far as the fact that it doesn't take long to learn, if you're a high level wrestler,
to learn Giu Jitsu, yes, absolutely.
You'll learn it very quickly.
Look at the history that you have seen.
Dan Severn, Mark Coleman, Kevin Randallman, Randy Kurtzure, Tito, all those high level wrestlers.
And that's the history.
Because guess what?
High level wrestlers are there right now, too.
John Jones, DC.
It's wrestlers.
Now, are there other guys that come in and fill it?
But the, I would say the majority base is wrestling.
So, now, you also have to look speaking of history.
You have to look at the early UFC's or you go to any gym.
And the fact is, the fact is,
a Gitsu-only guy beats a wrestling-only guy in a fight nine times out of ten.
That's the way it is.
That, now, if the wrestler can learn very quickly, but if the wrestler only knows wrestling,
and the Gitsu guy only knows Gitsu, the Gitsu guy is going to win.
Simply, because the wrestler doesn't know how to finish the fight.
He doesn't know how to finish it.
He doesn't have any submission holds to finish a fight.
Can they occasionally, nine times, you know, one time out of ten, or whatever, get something.
And yes, that can happen.
But, and also, I'm not talking about if you take a NCAA wrestler,
and you put him against a white belt, or maybe even a blue belt,
there's a chance that the blue belt can't submit him.
The guy's just too strong.
That's if he has some awareness.
If he has no awareness whatsoever, he's going to get tapped out.
Yeah. And if you watch the early UFC's, that's exactly what happened.
You know, the wrestlers, they might get positioned, but they were getting choke,
they were getting tapped.
And you go to any gym right now.
You have a tough wrestler walking that doesn't know any Gitsu.
He's going to get tapped out.
I mean, for instance, right now at our gym,
we got a really good wrestler named Taylor Johnson, and I'll bring his name up
because I can remember it all because it's all been recent.
He's been training now for less than a year.
When he first came in, he was getting tapped out.
You know, that's the way it is. He's a phenomenal wrestler.
Two months later, he wasn't getting tapped out.
Six months later, he's tapping people out.
So that's what happens.
But, if you take physically kind of close people,
and you put pure wrestling against Pier Gitsu,
due to it's who's going to win.
Now, there's also another thing that you're probably noticing in this situation.
And that is that wrestling, wrestling selects for athleticism.
Right? Wrestling, selects for athleticism.
And for you to be competitive in wrestling,
you need to be strong, quick athletic.
Adgial, all those things are important.
And I've seen that with the school, where my kids wrestle,
and you see it, what it's like when you get a strong athletic kid,
and how they're able to execute moves better than someone that's not that good of an athlete.
And so wrestling does that.
Wrestling is selective.
So if you wrestled, guess what? You're a really good athlete.
And if you did well wrestling, or you wrestled for a long time,
you developed that athleticism because you had to be exposed
if you had to train hard.
So that's that. Also, blue belts, you look at a blue belt.
A blue belt is basically a person that's been doing you did for a year.
Maybe two years. Right?
So that's the same thing as a lower level high school wrestler.
Right? A low level high school wrestler is a guy that didn't start wrestling until he was a freshman year.
Started wrestling. Well, that's a low level high school wrestler.
And guess what? He's getting beat.
So you should be.
If you're a good wrestler, you should be able to,
once you understand the basic principles of jiu-jitsu, you should be able to beat blue belts.
Because they're a year into the game.
That's the way it is.
Um, yeah, you take a competitive wrestler and you go against somebody that's,
you know, seven years in.
And now they're a brown belt.
Well, that's a competitive high school wrestler.
That's a senior.
And he started training in six grade. That's seven eight years.
Let's go against a seven or eight year jiu-jitsu guy.
You've got, now you've got a good match.
And likely the jiu-jitsu guy's going to win.
Now again, if you take no, if you take a pure wrestler versus pure jiu-jitsu guy's going to win all day,
all day.
So, um, you know, there's no denying.
And like I just said, there's a reason that wrestling is the premier skill set in the UFC that predicts champions.
No doubt about it.
It is a great and incredible martial art.
I, I wish that that wrestling had kept its roots as catch wrestling and still had submission holds and all that,
because it would just completely change the game.
But it doesn't.
So you have to add them later.
There's also something else too where I think that I think that people in general,
wrestling's not for everybody, right?
It's a very hard sport.
And I think that people avoid that grind of as far as as far as,
okay, you're going to get good at wrestling now.
How much did you do to guy now?
I'm going to make you good at wrestling.
Did you do to guys avoid the grind?
I shouldn't say all of them, but some often.
Did you do to guys avoid the grind of the takedowns and the intensity of wrestling?
They're not looking for that.
That's one of the things that makes jiu-jitsu appealing to a very broad range of people is that you can train it at a,
at a mellow or pace, right?
And that's also why if you go do jiu-jitsu tournaments,
wrestlers do really well in jiu-jitsu tournaments because they understand the intensity of
rounds of limited time of smashing someone, of going all out.
Did you do to guy that's been training in the gym?
They ain't ready for that first tournament.
There's no jiu-jitsu guy in the gym that goes to the first tournament and says,
yeah, that was just like what I thought it was going to be like, no, they're not used to that intensity.
They're not ready for it.
So, I mean, and of course not taking away from jiu-jitsu guys,
that train like madmen with total intensity and get after it's super hard to because those guys exist as well.
And also last little thing on this, there are also some wrestlers that don't adapt to the slower pace of jiu-jitsu.
They can't adapt to that and they don't adapt to the slower pace of MMA.
And so they, their whole career, they gas out and there's plenty of pro MMA fighters,
UFC that have come in high level wrestlers that they couldn't ever quite make the transition to MMA.
So, you know, bottom line, these are, these are points that I pretty much agree with that this guy made.
And wrestling's awesome.
I think it's a great base.
I think it's, it's a form of grappling and it complements jiu-jitsu and jiu-jitsu complements it.
And I wish that it was one sport, but it's not.
So you have to do both.
Yeah, and it seems like, like to, because he was originally not complaining about complaining,
but he, his premise was that, you know, jiu-jitsu is not in fact the hardest one to mask.
The hardest one to master, you know, wrestling, he's implying that wrestling is harder to to master.
You know, it's because he taught jiu-jitsu guys wrestling and they didn't pick it up.
Right.
That was kind of it.
In jiu-jitsu, you can break all kinds of wrestling rules in jiu-jitsu.
Yeah.
And, but wrestling guys, when they'll come in, if they, they have to learn to break some wrestling rules.
Otherwise, it's going to be their detriment.
Sure.
I have a lot of them carry over. A lot of, you know, a lot of the strength and explosive,
I see what you're saying.
But man, if a wrestler can't break the rule to go to his back, you know, because a lot of
wrestlers will give up their back all day, because they don't want to go on their back, you know?
And that's why they're going to get choked all the time.
But if, like Taylor, that's a good example, but he'll flopped it.
He broke that rule quick, and that's why he's so good, because he can expand his mind and break that rule.
So, but consider the jiu-jitsu guy.
Now, he has to learn all these, so he has to essentially, and not so much break the rule.
You can't, that's probably break some rules, you know, but not going to his back or whatever.
But, but, but, but you just look at the, don't have to break any jiu-jitsu rules necessarily.
So, a place, why am I going to end the point?
Case in point.
How much time and effort am I going to put into learning to take down correctly when it barely decides the match?
Exactly.
There's a mental, there's a mental gap in the desire for knowledge, because if I if you take me down,
cool, I'm going to get you, I'm going to, you're not going to pass my guard.
Whereas, when a wrestler shows up, he has to learn this stuff.
Otherwise, he's losing, he's getting tapped out, he's getting choked.
So, that's a great, great point there.
Yeah, very true.
So, yeah, you don't have to, you know, and even when you say, okay,
jiu-jitsu should focus more on take downs, and it's really cool, and you should definitely focus on take downs.
You've got to learn them, and it's very important.
But at the back of your mind, as a jiu-jitsu guy, I'm like, just pulled out.
Yeah, I don't really care if you take me down, it's okay.
Or, and then now we're talking about, in this case, we're talking about, I'm not saying that me personally,
because I don't like it.
Right, right, I'm just saying, put 10 potentially, but, and here's the thing to even add to that even.
If you're considering the comparison of wrestling and jiu-jitsu, take down situation.
Take, not all take downs are, or, quote unquote, wrestling take downs.
I can be like, okay, I can not learn wrestling at all, and still be good at take downs.
If I learn jiu-jitsu, or if I, you know, if I learn something else.
So, again, so it goes, it's basically you're taking something really vast with a lot of easy ways to maneuver around certain techniques,
and still be vastly successful.
And then you're basically saying, okay, let's take that, a person who has that approach,
and narrow it down to this much more difficult approach and way less effective approach.
Essentially, is the vastness of grappling.
I can still be successful in grappling without learning XYZ wrestling moves.
And then you want to teach them these XYZ wrestling moves, probably some that can go against you,
especially when it comes to energy conservation and all this other stuff.
That's why a guy, maybe, yeah, it might be difficult to learn that,
but how you said there's a gap in the motivation to learn.
So it's difficult to want to learn, or care about learning this thing,
when it's going to serve me less in microplains.
No doubt, you can just look at the human facts of jiu-jitsu.
There's a reason why take downs are not emphasized very much in jiu-jitsu.
At a normal academy, a normal academy, they do not have the focus on take downs,
like wrestling.
Wrestling, the take down wins you, when you're the match on a micropline,
but that's a huge part of wrestling is getting the take downs.
Jiu-jitsu, it's a little tiny percentage of the match.
Just to give you two points, yeah, but it doesn't mean anything to me,
because I'm going to submit you.
Yeah, and just the nature of the game, you know,
wrestling is take down pain, there's more to it.
I understand, but Jiu-jitsu is just submit the guy.
You know, so Jiu-jitsu, in a way, it's like just get it to the ground.
You can win off your back, you can win from the top,
you can win it from the top, you can win it wrestling is not like that.
Yeah, I mean, people literally pull guard and then win from their back,
and the zero second on top, zero win the match.
And so the fact that you can pull guard gives you this entire out
to get away from doing take downs, and you can still be victorious,
and that goes along with these techniques that he mentioned,
like, you know, through, see hip, basically there's,
there's a lot of moves in there, there are big moves,
big moves, and they do help you, but like I said,
they're just, they're simply not necessary.
You know, I mean any physical move is helpful to know
and not a defend whether it be from offensive, or defense position,
but again, if you're trying to narrow it down and teach these guys
who their approach and their knowledge comes from the vastness of grappling,
and you want to narrow it down to this thing,
it may or may not work, you know, and it may or may not serve you,
it could work against you, but here, let's try to learn this,
real hard, yeah, you're going to have that gap in motivation.
Yeah, so that's actually, don't care about the take downs.
Yeah, and I'm going to go on record now as saying this,
just because, you just who doesn't focus on take downs,
doesn't mean that you shouldn't focus, you should learn take downs,
you need to know take downs from a self defense perspective,
from an MMA perspective, take downs wrestling, you have to do it.
I mean, that's why my kid's wrestle, you know,
it's because I didn't wrestle, and I hate that fact,
because I go against, like he's saying, you know,
I go against a good high school wrestler,
I it's hard for me to take him to the ground, you know,
you get somebody that wrestled in college,
I know what's, I know I'm not good.
Now I have developed good take down defense over the years,
and it's actually take down offense,
because I have offensive ways of defending the take down,
you know, I'm going to throw submissions stuff,
but I can't go back in time and go through the training that you get
when you're a high school wrestler and college wrestler,
I can't do that, I can't do it.
I mean, I just don't have the time and the motivation to do it,
because I'm in the same boat as, you know,
the guy that you're just talking about,
how much time am I going to focus on take downs,
I know I go against a college wrestler, he's taking me down.
I go against a good high school wrestler,
there's a good chance he's taking me down.
So how much time and effort?
I mean, I could spend the next five years,
I could go through a competitive circuit,
I could join the wrestling club,
but am I going to do that right now?
In fact, if we're doing, I just want to get better at jujitsu.
And then have access to the rest of the grappling spectrum that you just talked about.
Well, it's an obvious choice.
I'm going to focus on the spectrum that has the most,
the most application in every situation I'm going to be in.
So if you get the chance,
wrestle, wrestles, much as you can,
learn your take down, to drill your take down,
put your kids in the wrestling.
Do you just do for sure, put your kids in the wrestling?
They don't have to worry about it then.
The factory mains, some people, they don't want that beef,
you know, where you got to go and wrestle,
man, that's hard.
And even like a wrestling, you can have a wrestling style
two-year jujitsu.
But again, if you don't want that, you know who didn't wrestle?
Craig, Craig Baker.
Didn't wrestle.
Yeah.
You've already tried with him?
You'll be like, where did you wrestle in college?
Which do we think it?
He's pure jujitsu.
Yeah.
He's a wrestling college.
Didn't wrestle in high school.
Didn't even wrestle in high school.
He feels like a total wrestler when you tried with him.
And his take-downs are great.
Yeah.
And there's some Brazilian guys that have come up,
that, you know, Brazilian UFC fighters that are very good wrestles,
that never wrestled before they have really good take-downs.
Yeah.
And, but, you know, you're going to, you're going to have to
wear your effort work for that.
And these kids that come out of high school,
that wrestled in high school, they got it.
Yeah.
To look good.
But for these guys and back to the question,
for these guys that he's trying to teach, and he totally says,
like, it could be my sample size.
I understand.
Yeah.
That's a good point actually.
But because the sample size would be big,
you can get guys like Craig.
They'll pick that stuff up real quick.
But, at the end of the day, when it comes to, as he put it,
when it comes time to shoot, penetrate with their hips or effectively
use their hips to defend or scramble,
you can omit all of those things from a jujitsu guy,
and he can still win.
Yeah.
And be that's a success.
Well, you know, so scramble, you got it.
Yeah.
But it's scramble scrambles, scrambles, a questionable one.
You have to be able to scramble.
Yeah.
But again, I mean, you know, we've learned that you scrambleing
is a very good valuable thing to have in jujitsu.
Yeah.
Much more valuable than, you know, being able to penetrate on the shot.
Agreed.
But yeah.
Wrestling is right.
That's a weird, that's such an interesting one.
I feel bad that I forget his name, but I wrote with him every time I see him.
And he's swallowing me, I give him maybe 165, maybe, and but an awesome wrestler.
You got to under one year.
And his game is wrestling, but he's like high level wrestling.
Yeah.
You know, so if I play the wrestling game, and I know I know wrestling, like I'm solid,
I can wrestle against good wrestlers, maybe not Taylor, but good wrestlers.
So I can play, and I'm bigger than him, you know.
So if I go and wrestle to wrestle this guy, bro, he like,
you're on the game on you.
Yeah.
I'll run his game.
But if I just slow down in my mind, be okay.
He's a wrestler, but let's just, yeah, let's work around the wrestling.
Oh, no problem.
Yeah.
You know.
But once he, if he can give up the wrestling rules, you know, you know,
he, he, he, because he has that athleticism, he switches hips, like all quick.
Base, just like, like he's built into the ground.
That's how good his base is, you know, it's, you know,
yeah, wrestling.
Yeah.
And I guess from a human nature perspective here, if you're going to apply this to other situations in life,
think about when you're trying to get people to do things, think about the motivation that they have.
And they're head, not motivation of like, hey, let's go.
But not the actual, the actual mental motivation of what they're going to gain from what you're trying to give them.
And do they see the reason of why it's important?
Yeah.
Oh, very. Got to apply that across the board.
Do you get to the life wrestling this life wrestling is like grappling grappling is like,
next question, hello, do you happen to have a podcast discussing loyalty to marriage that involves marriage to a service member?
I see many marriages, military spells where the service member has a great background in the military.
But lacks marriage at home.
You know, I actually have answered this question before and maybe not this specific,
but I'm going to go over it quickly just because this isn't just about military,
you know, relationships.
It's about any relationship.
But, you know, from a military perspective, absolutely military relationships are very hard.
You've got time away. You've got classified work.
There's a lack of understanding of what's going on at work.
You know, you've got lives at stake, right?
And with that, the job has to come first.
And that's a very hard thing for people to understand that the job has to come first.
Why does it have to come first for survival?
Because the harder you train, the better you know your teammates, the better shot you are.
The better your chance for actual survival in a combat situation.
So a spouse has got to understand that, right?
That in order for the service member to take care of the family,
the service member has to do his utmost to prepare himself and his team for war.
The number one priority.
Now, what the spouse has to understand is that this doesn't mean that
he wants to spend time away from his family.
He doesn't want to prioritize his team over his family.
He doesn't want to miss the recital.
He doesn't want to miss the ball game.
He doesn't want to miss the teachers conference.
But he has to.
He has to.
So spouse, don't be mad when he makes that priority.
Accept and understand that the family is the number one priority.
It is the number one priority.
But in order to be there for the family, he's got to prepare for war.
So that he can come home to his family after deployment.
Now, this, this obviously also applies to police,
the supplies to firefighters and I'll tell you what.
It applies really to the breadwinner.
Man or wife.
Husband or wife in any walk alive, right?
If you're the breadwinner for the family,
you've, that's what you're doing.
The way that you're taking care of the family is by bringing home money so that there is food and housing and clothing and a secure future.
That's what you're doing.
And so the spouse in these situations has to understand that the hard work,
the hard work and the hours and the days and the weeks that are taken away from the family is actually done to provide for the family, right?
So that's the, the key piece that that people have to understand that that the, that the,
the spouse has to understand.
Now, the service member and again, I've talked about this before the service member or the firefighter or the police officer or the breadwinner.
What they have to do is they have to make sure that they don't go overboard.
That they draw the line somewhere that they don't destroy.
What it is that you're trying to protect.
Don't destroy what it is you're trying to take care of.
Don't give the, the plant so much water that you drown it.
Don't cook the steak so long that you burn it.
Don't work so hard for your family that you don't have a family anymore.
You gotta have the balance.
In one of the things that you gotta do is you gotta explain that to the family and you gotta tell them what's up and you gotta tell them that they are the most important thing.
And that all this work that you're doing that's taken you away from them is actually being done for them.
And you gotta communicate that to them. They got to understand it's hard for them. It's hard for them. It's hard for them. It's hard for a,
8 year old kid to understand why you're missing the, the baseball game or the, the six year old girl while you're missing the, the jitz who turn them in or whatever.
It's hard to explain that.
But you've got to at least try you've got to make it evident them and you also have to make sure you don't abuse it.
Right? Because work can be fun.
And hanging out with our teammates for an extra day of shooting or an extra day of jumping or having a beer at the pub on the way home.
That can all sometimes be more appealing than the recital.
Then the ball game.
So don't abuse it.
You, you have to take care of your family.
And you have to talk to each other and understand this balance together.
Understand the sacrifices that are being made on both sides so that you can work it out and maintain the strength of that entity, the family that you're trying to take care of.
Yeah, and I mean, I walked the line on this one. I work hard and I work hard for my whole life.
Yeah, and it's going to depend to, right? I mean, like, you say don't work so hard that you don't have a, it depends how rigid or resilient like the family is.
And that has to do with like, you know, you explain it and it's kind of like lifting and overtraining.
Yeah, I'm lifting so I can get these results when I rest or all this stuff, right?
But if I'm just living with lifting no less than, but it's going to depend on how strong I am to begin with kind of things.
So I mean, yeah, man, it makes sense.
You know, it's helpful.
I mean, you've got to explain it till like how you say with everything.
Yeah, just keep explaining.
But my daughter, yesterday last night asked me why she wasn't sad or nothing like that, but she's like, why do you work so much?
I think it's, I mean, it's face. I don't work so much, but as far as she's concerned, if I'm not playing, whether at that moment or you work to my, I can work one minute.
I work too much, but I was like, oh, dang.
I had to think of it from her perspective, you know, and I had explained it.
I explained it all and she had fun. Me explained it. You know, and now she understands.
I had, you know, I was like sitting having to dinner with my, with my family.
You know, and we don't eat together every single night because we're all busy doing a bunch of different things.
So we were having dinner and for some reason I had something going on to business where I was pulled out my phone and I was texting someone going back and forth.
And you know, one of my kids was, you know, why you on your phone right now?
And then you know, my like, wife chimed in, yeah, I can't you just put that down.
And I said, hey, just so everybody knows, did you get the fence?
I did get a little bit of fence. I said, just so everybody knows, if I could, I would take this phone and throw it in the ocean and never look at it again.
But I have work to do and sometimes my work involves working at night and some, and most of the time, we're from working at night, it's on this little gadget right here that I have to look at.
So that's why I'm doing this. Not because I don't want to listen to you, not because I don't want to sit here and just focus on the family right now.
But guess what, I got work to do and the work that I'm doing is not for me.
It's for this family. So we can have a house so we can have food on the table.
So back off.
But they got the point. You know what I mean? Yeah, really.
The back off point. But they understand, they realize, you know, and for, you know, for my, for my young daughter that was, you know, five years old at the time, I said,
I said, this is how we get food and this is how you get toys. I have to work to buy you toys. Yeah, you know, do you not want any more toys?
She was like, hmm, go ahead and answer the phone.
Yeah, did you work?
Yeah, that's what you have toys. That was part of my speech, too. There you go. That wasn't all that stuff.
Did it get nuts like I did? It wasn't very confrontational. She used like smiling. She's just a good cop. Keep in mind when I'm working. She has the option to jump on my lap.
Right. Keep that in mind. So it's, this is in a troublesome situation.
Yeah. And I understand that. But the point still is there, though. You explain it.
Like you explained it or like how I explained it. And if they know and they understand, then it's like it's clear, you know, but not, that's not to say that they don't have a point, though.
Because sometimes, especially if you don't explain or you're not engaged at all these people who, you know, they're in the phone yourself.
And that's why you need to check yourself and make sure that you're not going overboard.
Yeah, you're not abusing it. Because you know what?
Does that client really need to hear from me at this moment?
Yes.
The answer is, and this is, you know, I figured out years later, it's like no, actually they don't need to hear from me right now.
Yeah.
Not a little time. Sometimes.
Sometimes.
But they can hear from me a little later.
Yeah.
After dinner.
When I text you right back, you have to respond right back.
Yeah.
No, you have to respond right back.
Sometimes I'm busy cruising.
We got a grown morning sick.
No, we don't. But we're going to do that anyway.
Jockel.
Do you have a specific place or time?
You spend thinking specifically about your fallen comrades.
Yeah.
Anytime that things are going.
Good.
In my life.
Any moment of happiness.
Anytime I'm enjoying my life from thinking about.
What the future holds.
That's when I think about my friends that died.
So surfing after a good wave and waiting for the next one.
After some good jiu-jitsu training.
After a good workout.
A good meal.
Or maybe a smile.
Or a laugh with a friend.
Or having an ice cream cone with my.
With my daughter.
Or playing guitar with my son or catching a little smile.
And I'm a wife.
At those moments.
At those moments without a doubt.
That's when I think of Mark.
And that's when I think of Mikey.
And that's when I think of Ryan.
And that's when I think of.
All those.
Those brave souls.
Those brave souls that have fallen.
And I always will.
I always will.
But you know, it's not.
It's not a bad thing.
And I don't want you to think that it ruins the moment.
Because it doesn't.
It doesn't at all.
It doesn't.
Fill me with sadness or with sorrow or with pain.
And it doesn't make me angry or frustrated or depressed or dark.
And it doesn't make me focus on.
On.
On death.
No.
It.
It doesn't.
Do that at all.
It.
It makes.
It makes me want to live.
Makes me want to live more and do more.
It makes me want to be more.
To know.
At those moments.
This.
This life.
This life is a gift from those men.
They gave.
This to me.
They gave me that moment.
And because.
They gave it to me.
They don't have it anymore.
They gave us everything they had.
Everything.
They had.
They gave to us.
So.
Great.
To them.
And when I think of them.
I'm not.
Sad.
When I think of them.
I'm happy.
I'm happy I knew them.
I'm happy I served with such heroes.
And I'm happy that they gave me the chance to be happy today.
I won't let.
The dark.
Specter of death.
Drag me down.
I'll.
Remember them.
And.
And for them.
I.
Will.
Live.
And I think that's.
All I've gotten.
For tonight.
So.
Echo.
Could called imagine.
Fucking devilish pimp.
amount.
Are.
Can Sally suspect Ridgon.
Or we can't act like that.
Proud.
There are two.
You can type.
realized.
You can put the life eliction.
Thank God".
life game physical so yeah supplements whatever so mental yeah mental
physical emotional even new mood hmm I haven't tried that yeah I don't want a
new mood I like my career career yeah so I'm gonna tell me I should smoke pot
sure you should you should just try it you know you're out of the military now
you should just you know she tries some pot and I was like oh interesting
but like why do you think you know I should do that this will you know you won't
be so angry all the time then and I said I like being angry I don't think
I'll try your your potion which is also kind of strange even that I mean I
know you don't actually like being angry you're also not angry all the time that's
true I don't think I've seen you angry but maybe three times really
ever what I get angry you're angry at Dean for something okay I will
yeah and then something else actually so one time yeah that was it that was
only time like it actually was it was a Dean twice yeah Dean can be frustrating
hey man and if you're angry all the time there's this thing called new mood by
on I took it once but I didn't feel like I was in a new mood but from the
people that other people that take it because you know like okay so
something's like anything else is like you're you're probably gonna take the
ones that you feel like you need or you want help with you know like if you're
like okay I gotta recover better from it because I work out so much you're gonna
take some kind of recovery thing you know my joints or you know whatever you're
gonna take real oil or something for your joints whether so new mood is one of
those ones where I was like okay I'm sleeping fine I don't have necessarily like
hangover situations or depression or anything where I need some enhancement
not to say that I couldn't benefit I'm not saying that but I'm saying I'm not
gravitating towards the wedger it for I hear good things man okay
I hear good things because I'm thinking probably in the back of your mind
you're like you know I'm cruising right now but I could probably cruise
our great I knew we'd get actually no I bought it for my wife because she you know how like she's
the kind where she like if there's a task like let's do the task real task you know
oh yeah someone that likes to get stuff done yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you
can see why she didn't like making videos we could be in a whole new scenario
right now you know I want it for her so you know
she wouldn't be so productive I like her it goes because she said that she
stresses from it yeah especially with a new bay I mean kind of new six
seven months whatever but you know like when it's time to go sleep you know
okay and where and I don't know if you're like this but you know the kind where
me if I'm like I'm gonna go take a nap from three to four when I go in at
two fifty nine to go take a nap in the advent of me doing that I go in at two
fifty nine at three oh one I'm probably either sleep in her close to sleep
you know not everyone's like that where there'll be like all the stuff was on my mind
because I go into taking an app and I'm like BTFBTFBTFBTFBTFBTFBTFBTFBTF
can't sleep car I can't even sleep yeah exactly so there's new mood I took an
app the other day though I took a like serious nap yeah I was just tired
like yeah tired on the couch that's kind of how it's for that yeah no couch
naps are are sort of I don't like the couch naps to that they're pretty
dope because I think you're gonna go I'm gonna nap boom can you feed up
elevate set the alarm clock couch nap is just like what happened right right
yeah you know what's weird in a way and I'm just I guess I'm just speaking
of from experience I don't have any like technical reason but
what seems like the couch nap year in this mental state that is kind of like
you have low expectations comfort you know so your body's like you know what
you might not be the most comfortable but hey you're not moving so boom you just
fall see but when I when you can go like in your room and you lay down and you're
like way away with the temperature is just a little bit not cool and then you're like
okay let me adjust the temperature only wait like I hear something outside let me close the door
you know so it's almost like you can't sleep because the conditions are perfect
when you have that expectation of perfect conditions but on the couch you don't have
that expectation you're just like it's like if you're napping outside of the bed
I don't have a blanket I'll just pull this pillow over my left arm and I'd be good to go
exactly right so yes I'm like I'm not expecting that I mean that just has to do with
naps but this the new mood one that's for like if you have like stress you know but
don't talk about it if we don't know then talk about another thing yeah wait I think we do
know I think the conversation went in that direction of its own like momentum okay
well next thing you know we're talking about naps yeah I know that's so on it yeah okay
on it's the best supplements let's get that out of the way like straight up factually
brother also they have like you know where your butt proud the other day so I got some
more of your bars already had them whatever did it work out and I like to eat after work
I gotta get a certain amount of protein in there and that's really oh I'm going for counting
my macros nothing like that but if you only have like one small piece of half piece of chicken left
over from that you kind of need more my opinion I needed more so I was like but I made cool like
it was like this brown rice it was good but I only had like this half piece of chicken so I was like
should I need more meat in there looking at the fridge like nothing so I got a little bit of your
bar too worried where it's in chopped them up and like put it in there and like he just helped
it in the microwave it's actually good so it's like a buffalo meat chicken rice um come
cox concoxion it was good though even you're used to worry about kind of like beef jerky or like
it was it like soft and moist it was no it wasn't so it was still the worry about it was just
a warm warrior bar it worked it worked the flavor profile worked like it majestically
I have to give that one a run anyway worry bars if you didn't know what that is there
look on it dot com it's buffalo meat and it's still gluten free by the way um anyway so the main
ones is what krill oil for your joints you'd be surprised how much joint degeneration we all have
that's what I think okay get the krill oil also you're trying to entice me in the longer conversations
I'm not taking the bait I don't want to know about your joint degeneration yes you do you take your mind
no of course you're the one who turned me on to it so you're a good degeneration
I gave you krill oil for joint maintenance this is okay this is where krill oil okay so this
the Greg Greg train back in turn asked me not yesterday not the last time I saw him for Sunday
I hear fish oil like what no it was one who asked it Greg was just there um
I'll niche yeah he said fill oh what's the difference between fish oil and krill oil because I take
fish oil or whatever what's the difference okay here's the difference I might get my wife's dad would say
that this dude grip the krill oil is better this is why krill oil the omega threes is a little
omega threes that's what you're going for so they both fish oil and krill omega threes so fish oil
attaches to you try glycerides krill oil omega threes attached here phospholipids so
what does that mean who cares right who cares well I just want it you know you might
do it so let's say your joints are a nightclub okay follow me this is a
perfect analogy you're joints are you're long analogy I'm gonna make sure
joints are you're a nightclub that's your joint right and you want the omega threes
to get in there right so omega threes are these your crew okay
jocco is triglycerides echo is phospholipids okay hey jocco's cool his crew
though omega threes we both have omega threes with us they're attached to me we're a mean
you're on the guest list hey who am I gonna let in jocco and his rowdy crew
of omega threes they be seals they do burpees at random times they want you know
or echo because they're just cruising they both spend money they both all though omega threes
spend money they gotta be in the nightclub but which omega threes is the bounce you're
gonna let in your omega threes they'll make a threes attached to you the triglyceride
or to the phospholipids who's me who probably me yeah okay so anyway boom that's why the
crew oil gets led in better you know all 14 minutes sorry but you see him saying that's
basically how your body is it's like hey it's better absorption okay
krill oil in that you know krill oil or krill oil format okay for black
of editor just gets better absorption there's other stuff do some antioxidant
that you're the first lady you know when you get the krill oil take care of your
joints you'd be surprised the role they play and everything that's my opinion if you're not on
that get on that also good way to support amazon click through what you do is you go
be free to your amazon shopping if you don't already be for you do your amazon shopping go
through the website jocopadcast.com or jocostory which are click on the amazon link also
it's also called support click on support well amazon link whatever then you so you click through
the website then you go do your amazon shopping outstanding way to support
really good support then you do shopping as you normally would in boom instant support
and you know it doesn't cost you anything cost you two seconds of your time for big support
so it's like you know small action bigger reaction like sodium in water yeah exactly so yeah
so you understand now if you're if you know what happens to sodium metal when you put in water
that's gonna be used that's the amazon click i'm just saying i think it's important to like
remember that because it's that's really you do think it's important so that's don't let's
don't let's don't mind this every time subscribe to the podcast i didn't stitch our google play
all the podcast platforms and right of you review if you're in the mood that's a good
right of you so put the rankings if our podcast is in good ranking that's cool right
yeah i guess so i think so or subscribe to or and subscribe to youtube if you're into youtube
you watch videos you can see this podcast obviously in video format or all the excerpts that we put
on there you said that like there's this massive there is so there is and there's more coming
and you know those these are good because you can share them with your friend you know if you so
okay so i have some technical knowledge of you so i know how to share the link and then in the
link that i share i can manipulate the little URL or whatever so when they click on the link it'll
start at a certain moment in the video right it's not hard to do you just there's a little
setting but anyway i can do that so if i'm so if i'm like hey lemme share jocos take on this
with with my friend jell or whatever then he because i think he could benefit or this is what
he was asking me about hey here it is i i can send him the whole podcast i just manipulate
the thing to the little bookmark place where he can start but if you don't you don't want to do all
that you can just find the excerpt that i put on the youtube channel you know they're just more
shareable so they don't have a listen to the whole podcast to get the you know the it's a specific
lesson that's really cool you'd think that there would be a lot of those from your excitement about them
yeah it depends on what you mean by a lot but i think yeah there's some significant you know okay
we're putting it on there will be the judge of that over here on this end also jocos a store
if you don't know it's called jocosstore dot com if you uh you know if you like these shirts
that we make and we put effort into the shirts they're not like the cheap make a stencil spray paint
cheap hands not that hands is cheap but cheap shirt here okay and you give away for it's not that kind
they're good like quality same same I say the spray paint thing because i've made shirts like that
yeah so they're not that kind they're good they got some you know cool these are if you
like them so check out those go there jocosstore dot com if you want to support in that way get a shirt
and represent in the wild boom women stuff whatever shirts patches rash guards 19% performance increase
proven 147% proven 19% improvement who do you say as well it's getting warmer i understand but still
it's cold someplace it's Michigan still cold the the hoodies are probably good for this time of year
right now because they aren't the heaviest of weight next winter we're gonna go jocos style
on the hoodies there gonna be heavyweight this year we would act with style yeah lightweight
cool i could answer it there there there there still hoodies but they're not is heavy yeah
duty they're like medium heavy they're medium I think technically they're I think they're a medium
heavy yeah yeah next year we're going to have you heavy yeah or we could go light for the spring
summer as well oh let's not just do like a whole fashion thing we're gonna make one time
now one here see you know go there jocosstore dot com so let's go look at what you want
bring line of job and cool things stop bring collection yeah but yeah see with you know if
if something for looks good to you support that way represent also psychological warfare now look
support the podcast i dig it and thank you everyone who's supported but psychological warfare
that one is a support yourself situation really if you're weak this is what it is psychological
warfare if you don't already I know explain every time but I'm explaining it again if you're
feeling moments of weakness in regards to your workout or waking up early or slipping
on the on the whole diet program and I don't mean diet like I'm just saying eating correctly
and not incorrectly if you're about to slip on that you get enticed like my sister explained
she did with her son brings home some brownies she couldn't help but eat the brownies now she's
paying for it on the treadmill according to her words not like at the moment of the introduction
of the brownies or donuts as the case maybe you put on one of these tracks it's called sugar
coated lies snack time she's got a coated lies listen to jockel he'll explain to you some stuff
that will cause you to not slip on that plan and this goes for like I said waking up doing the
workout pushing yourself during the workout all this stuff getting your work to all this stuff so
if you need a spot in those areas look into that it's called psychological warfare jockel
willing it's on iTunes good way to support yourself and by happens that supports the podcast as
well double whammy double gravitational thing also while you're clicking through amazon
you can order jockel weight team you can get on amazon.com do the click through try it be careful
be careful when you use it but give it a try see what happens and I got a couple more
just reviews for amazon.com since taking it with me to the gym over ice I not only get to enjoy
the semi-sweet flavor of the tea but I have also noticed increases in strength on squats of
notice to 15 to 20% increase in strength while using it and my deadlift has gone from 475 to 805
extra let's see it by the way it says semi-sweet there's no sweetener in the tea it's just
what it is no sugar in there that would be just hypocritical and I would have to close down my life
yeah that'd be one another one no big deal I'm not a tea drinker but needed to sound so
to to kick the diet soda jockel white tea is what the reviews say I drink it iced and I love the
taste since drinking jockel white tea my total and free tea levels have increased I don't have the
labs to back up my claim but my voice is deeper my muscles are leaner energy increased
and my wife's favorite result is increased stamina I feel 21 again enjoy the tea and support the
podcast again science these are from amazon right these are peer review yeah
very few reputable these are reputable and that jocquinty you can get and you can write a
funny review like everybody else is doing a little book coming out called way the warrior kid
by the way it's coming out soon it's coming out May 2nd it's gonna sell out and once people read the
initial ones that sell out the people that got it they're gonna order more it's gonna be back ordered
and you're not gonna be able to get one so order it now real easy also discipline equals freedom
field manual that's coming in October same thing order it so you can get a copy when it comes out
the manual will show you how to get after it that's it it's the field manual you want to get after
it you get the field manual there's one equals freedom you've heard that you probably think that
you actually probably know that how to execute it you get the field manual following instructions
workouts thoughts food intake sleep habits everything's in there no factor extreme ownership also
it's just word amount keeping it in the top one the 200 on amazon that's insane thank you all
for spreading the word and getting your people in the game get them a copy you know what right
a little note in the copy that you get for your team get them a little advice what chapter you
think is suited for them get them on board up and down the chain of command by the way you
don't want your whole team to be outperforming your leadership which is what will happen if you
just get the book for them and you echelon front leadership and management consulting keynote
speeches yep we do those long range leadership alignment programs yes that is what we do
so me life jpg day of work combat leadership applied to business and life check the website
echelon front dot com or email info at echelon front dot com also the master
and again this is not a seminar about getting pumped up no it isn't a seminar about finding
yourself it's not going to help you channel your internal cheat towards eternal bliss it's
not going to do that it's not what the musters about the muster is about leadership pragmatic
leadership skills for you to use in your business and your life you work with people
you lead people or you aspire to lead people who's going to teach you how to do that where you're
going to learn that from actual question where do you learn that from who's going to teach it to you
learn to lead your people learn to lead yourself may fourth and fifth New York City
Marya grand marquee are we playing around no we are not the first master was awesome why are we
having a second muster because the first muster was awesome that's why we're having a second
muster so come to it and until we see you at the muster because by the way I'm going to be there
life's going to be there jp's going to be there Dave Burke going to be there that's not enough for you
and you need something to kind of close the deal no worry because echo Charles is going to be there
probably giving you four hour speech to the public yeah until the muster you can also find us
or on the interwebs cruising and in echo's case cruising hard we're on twitter instagram
and facebook echo is at echo Charles and i am at jocca willink and lastly
thanks for listening and giving us feedback and inspiring us to do this inspiring us to do
better and to be better knowing that we aren't alone on this mission knowing that you all are
with us in the game standing watch not backing down not settling for average not just going through
the motions but living living life living life hard and fast and aggressively and taking every
opportunity to step up step forward step on fear and step on failure and step toward a better you
and step out into the unknown to get after it
so until next time this is echo and jockel out